Title: How to Be Correct About Everything All the Time

One day Mr. Sun and Mr. Wind were having an argument about who was stronger,
when they spotted a man walking along the road.
They challenged one another to see who could get the man to remove his coat.
Well, it was Mr. Wind's turn first, and Mr. Wind said:
"Right, lads, let's fucking rush him!"
and began to blow and blow.
But despite all of this the man only buttoned his coat tighter,
and Mr. Wind blew some more until he was exhausted.
But now it was Mr. Sun's turn.
Unlike Mr. Wind, Mr. Sun was very modest and restrained, and said:
"Right, you dopey c*nt,"
and began to shine and shine, all the while quietly whispering:
"Take off your fucking coat, you stupid cu**."
And the day got warmer and warmer, and sure enough, the man took off his coat,
proving once and for all that it's always nicer just to be nice.
Well, Mr. Sun was rather pleased with himself, as you can imagine.
"Oi! You see that, you fucking wind cu**?"
And the day continued to warm up, and the man took off his t-shirt, because it was hot.
And next he took off his trousers, revealing a number of politically reprehensible tattoos,
and Mr. Wind said:
"Look what you've done, you stupid sun cu**. Look what you've gone and fucking done!"
For a very long time, many of us believed that the Earth was at the center of the solar system, called "geocentrism",
and, to be fair, it does kind of look that way from the ground, if you don't know better.
But plenty of people in history pushed for a "sun at the center model" called "heliocentrism".
One proponent was a rather clever 16th century philosopher called Giordano Bruno.
He also believed that stars were distant suns with their own planets –
in the 1500s, remember.
A normal idea today, pretty whack-a-doodle back then.
*Heh* Anyway...
The Catholic Church of the day were big supporters of Bruno's heliocentric ideas,
and celebrated his genius by lighting a big lovely bonfire,
which they popped him on top of!
Centuries later in the early 1900s,
and scientist Alfred Wegener noticed that the continents fit together a bit like an awkward jigsaw puzzle,
particularly Eastern South America and Western Africa.
He came up with a theory of continental drift –
the idea that the continents started as one big megamass called Pangea and slowly drifted apart over millions of years.
"Hey, that's a great idea,"
no geologist of the day said, and continued to fling intellectual shit at him non-stop for the remainder of his life.
It would take about 70 years –
or one Bill Murray –
for folks to realize he was actually spot on.
Kind of difficult to apologize, though, what with him being dead and everything.
September 15, 1999, and the Mars Climate Orbiter is just about to enter Mars orbit.
It does – though with a little too much enthusiasm,
barbecuing itself.
The reason? Because the spacecraft was quite sensibly using metric measurements,
while the software back on earth was using imperial.
I can sympathize, somewhat –
having left England years ago, I'm still only able to conceive of the world in terms of stone, inches,
and repressed childhood sadness!
Anyhow...
That's all just the beginning, really,
because the history of human civilization is one long failure of critical thinking.
Like the time humans invited a big wooden horsie into Troy;
like the time humans killed Julius Caesar in an attempt to save the Roman Republic,
and killed the Roman Republic;
like the time humans prescribed cocaine to treat hay fever,
and meth as a diet pill,
and heroin as a cough syrup –
to children!
Like the time humans repeatedly kept insisting on invading Russia...
during the winter.
♫ It's far too cold. Wear a fucking...
♫ It's far too cold. Wear a fucking... hat... ♫
♫ Or some nice booties... ♫
OR MAYBE SOME FUCKING GLOVES!
We are not a species built for critical thinking.
Just to illustrate the scale of the problem:
Is this a duck...
*quack*
...or a bunny?
*chitter*
Or, which of the two orange circles is bigger –
the one on the left,
or the one on the right?
Neither: they're both the same size...
Likewise, which is rotating faster – the sphere, or the column in the center?
Neither – it's a still image, your brain is kindly animating it for you.
And, finally, if you run your eyes over each of these cat pictures,
is there one in particular that stands out?
The answer is this one, obviously,
because she's MY cat and she's FUCKING GORGEOUS!
And these are just silly optical illusions that trip us up.
How the hell are we supposed to see true reality when it comes to things that actually matter in our lives?
Well, for as long as we've been trying to grapple with ol' Johnny Reality,
there has been an enemy sabotaging us at every turn.
They live in our brain bits, and they are called "logical fallacies".
The correlation fallacy, for example.
We live in a world now swamped in data and numbery-wumbers,
and it makes it very tempting to look for correlations.
One that took a shamefully long time to admit was the now obvious link between death sticks and lung cancer.
Then again, careful there, chuckles,
there's also a highly compelling correlation between the number of people who drowned by falling into swimming pools from 1999 onwards
and the number of films around that time Nicholas Cage appeared in.
Correlation does not necessarily imply causation.
Begging the question.
This is the Ouroboros of bullshit logic.
Someone declares: "I own your house now."
You respond: "Why?"
They respond: "Because I have your keys."
"Why do you have my keys?"
"I already told you, jerko – because I own your house."
You will see this all the time in public debates,
very weak tea indeed.
The slippery slope.
Perhaps you suggest to someone that it might be time for them to give up snorting detergent.
A slippery slope response would be: "Well, what do I give up next?
Shoes, then water, then breathing!?
IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT!?"
No, this is clearly not what you meant.
It is possible to make a change to the status quo without the complete collapse of physical reality.
The false dichotomy.
This is the dick move of presenting an A-B choice that isn't actually A or B.
These include things like,
"Well, either we save the rainforests, or we save the whales. You decide!"
What? Why? Can't we just do both?
Or, one that really gets my goat:
"If science can't prove everything immediately about how the world works,
then it must all be magic."
...Wat? Why can't there just be an honest gap between science and truth called
"We don't know yet, but we'll get there one day"
NOFKYOlogy, motherlovers! ;)
And that's not even the half of it!
Our brains are riddled with these bastards, ready to trip us up at any moment:
the argument from tradition,
the argument from false authority,
the argument from "because I read half a fucking Wikipedia article" –
we are constantly falling prey to silly patterns of thought,
and the only safeguard against them is eternal vigilance.
And possibly drugs! :)
All that being said, one point that rarely gets brought up in critical thinking
is that there is something more satisfying than winning arguments,
and that's not getting into arguments.
As a kid and a teen, I was quite obsessed with psychic phenomena, like telekinesis and telepathy.
But the more I looked into it, the more it all just seemed like anecdotal evidence,
and so far, no psychic feats confirmed under fair experimental conditions.
All the same, I finally lost my faith one day while watching UK daytime TV,
and one of those psychics was on, claiming to talk to dead people's relatives.
I'm sure you know the drill:
"Hey, anyone in the audience know a dead person whose name begins with E?"
*Chirping crickets*
"...or J?.."
*Chirping crickets*
"...or any letter in the English alphabet?"
"Ooo, I do!"
"(Oh, thank fuck for that...) And they're telling me they knew you somehow..."
"Oh God, yeah, it was my grandfather!"
"And they're telling me they were your grandfather."
"Wow, that's incredible, how did you do that?"
"And I'm sensing they died from something that made them dead."
"Oh my god, he's a wizard!"
Why do these ghosts always have really specific messages,
but simultaneously can only remember the first letter of their own fucking names?
Anyway, it suddenly hit me:
"Hmm, either this guy is actually talking to the dead, which will completely revolutionize modern science,
or this motherfucker is taking advantage of fragile people who are grieving for their loved ones,
and he's doing it for monetary gain."
Which is a very special flavour of evil, I hope you will agree.
It destroyed my faith in psychics and gave me, shall we say,
an overly passionate dislike of people making big metaphysical claims they couldn't back up.
And every time I came across people at parties or over dinner who hinted at even the most gentle metaphysical sentiments –
"Ah, everything happens for a reason," or whatever –
I became, there is no other way to put it, an obnoxious dick,
because I associated all of them with this one guy I'd seen on TV.
I was... insufferable.
Years later, however, I was eating dinner with some friends and a friend of a friend had joined.
The new guy noticed I wasn't eating meat and asked,
and I said, "Ah, I'm not really into it," and attempted to leave the thing there.
But he followed it with: "Well, if you care about animals so much,
why are you still eating dairy products? That's cheese on your plate, isn't it?"
"Uh-huh," I said. "Anyway..."
"Well", he continued for some time,
"I mean, you're not really making a difference. You're probably just trying to demonstrate how morally superior you think you are to everyone else."
"Yes, that's a fair point," I said.
...In the universe where I'm a Buddhist monk.
In this universe, I said:
"Uuuuhhh, go fuck yourself! And who the fuck are you anyway?"
And, of course, an argument began, ruining dinner completely.
Months later, though, somehow, we calmed down and discussed the incident, him and I.
And he was decent enough to explain that he had a roommate
who constantly yelled at him for enjoying steak, or bangers and mash, or whatever,
and he had automatically put me into that very same camp.
Much like I had believed anyone who wasn't a hardcore scientific materialist like me
must be a con artist.
And that was kind of humbling, because I was no more going to yell at him for enjoying a bratwurst
than those poor people I'd been mean to over dinner were gonna con me out of money
to talk to my dead childhood hamster.
And it seems suddenly that arguments about ideas usually rely on two fundamental constants:
1) Everyone thinks they're being reasonable, however insane their position is,
and 2) No one's going to change their mind by getting called a dick.
Looking back on that unpleasant dinner, I should have just calmed down and said:
"You seem a bit irritated, mate. What's up?"
And we probably could have sorted things there and then.
But my pride was hurt, and that was all I could think about.
Some days, you're the pigeon,
some days, you're the statue,
and almost all of us are ignorant about almost everything.
The world is too big not to be.
But, miraculously, finding the mental strength to say
"Alright mate, you seem a bit annoyed. Let's talk about it,"
is always going to get a better result than "go fuck yourself".
It relies on constantly remembering that the primary characteristic of a silly person
is that they think they're clever, and usually enjoy insisting that they're correct about everything,
Which makes admitting to ignorance a rather rare and endearing virtue.
In other words, what would Socrates do?
That's a very different mantra, by the way, to
to "what would Diogenes do?" because the answer to that one would be
"piss on people you disagree with and take a shit in the theater."
Incidentally, just a small personal request to the New Theater Royal in Portsmouth:
please give my season ticket back –
I promise I won't do it again.
Despite our species being the smartest smartypantsers on the planet,
human children are some of the most helpless infants in the entire animal kingdom.
Baby giraffes can stand up just hours after their birth,
but it takes our infants years before they can be left unsupervised.
That means we have to take care of them for a long time,
out of nothing but kindness.
That's me, by the way, back when I couldn't stand up and lived on a liquid diet –
so, no much has changed, really...
Cheers!
I often marvel at the fact my mom and dad spent all that time raising me, and protecting me, and teaching me.
They did it because they are kind.
It is a debt I can never repay, and they wouldn't expect me to, either.
That kindness is what kept me alive, and some variation of it was what kept all of us alive in those early years.
Do you know – a lower jaw bone was found in Dmanisi, Georgia, some time back now?
It belonged to a member of the homo erectus family, our now extinct human cousins.
He was a male of about 40 years old, who lived probably 2 million years ago.
The jaw is missing all its teeth except for one.
And we know he lived a long time like that,
which means someone was helping him to eat.
Two million years ago, someone was feeding him.
Someone cared about him, maybe someone loved him –
back in deep time, even before our species began,
a person or a group was practicing compassion.
Someone was being kind for the sake of being kind.
I think about that two million year old jawbone a lot these days.
I like to imagine a little pack of our evolutionary cousins huddled around a fire, knowing little, understanding even less,
before recourse to reason, or law, or history,
before currency and standing armies,
before socks,
and probably with no concept that one day, two million years in the future,
their cousins – us – would build this incredible global project of civilization,
and if there was some way we could have shown our cousins and ancestors just how far humans would one day come,
everything would seem alien to them –
except, perhaps, for compassion.
Because though they lived in perpetual ignorance,
though they were incorrect about almost everything all the time,
from that jawbone in Georgia,
from other ancient skeletons telling almost exactly the same story,
we know that they had kindness.
And it is the same kindness that today raises our kids and takes care of our elderly.
It's the same kindness that provides disaster relief or medical aid,
the same kindness that sustains friendships and writes love letters.
Do you ever get that weird "wow" moment sometimes, when you realize that the future isn't just this abstract sci-fi place – with hovercars or whatever –
it's ACTUALLY coming? Like, one day, it will ACTUALLY be the 22nd and 23rd centuries,
and they'll be just as pedestrian and real as the 21st century is to us?
And then, do you ever get that second "wow" moment when you realize that making it to those centuries isn't actually guaranteed,
that we could drop the ball at any moment,
and you think: "My god, is ANYONE making sure we're gonna be okay?
Is ANYONE actually steering the ship?"
'cause those sure are some big waves over there,
and we've never been this far out to sea before,
and maybe if we squint really hard, we can just about make out the promise of land centuries ahead.
But between the future and us are ten thousand furious storms –
of warfare, and infighting, and God knows we're in a crisis right this minute.
But our ancestors have been here before,
living forever on the knife-edge of ignorance and death,
at the constant mercy of systems inside and outside themselves
that they did not understand, just like us today.
And if there was one thing alongside intelligence and technology and wisdom,
if there was one thing that sustained them,
if there was ONE THING that got them through –
their bones are indisputable:
it was compassion.
It was kindness.
Doubtless, we will screw up in the future
with one million times the efficiency that we screwed up in the past.
We cannot, and will never be correct, about everything all the time.
Ignorance is in our bones.
But kindness is in our DNA.
And if anyone says otherwise...
Just tell them to fuck off.
With love, obviously...
With love.
Oh hi! Thanks for sitting through that.
Two things: firstly, I hope you enjoyed the opening animation,
because it was made by my best mate in the whole world – Mr. Jimmy Cakeshoes.
He's just starting out on here, and has a channel with a brilliant parody of Star Wars Episode 3,
which I laughed my ass off to, and I'm quite sure you will as well.
There is a link below if you'd like to go and check it out, or say hi, or wish him dead, etc.
It is an honor to have you working by my side, my man, and I'm just incredibly proud of you.
Second thing: I made a video a while ago called "thoughts about writing",
where I was trying to get down everything I wish I'd known about writing when I started writing,
but it was too bollocksy and abstract and it didn't work.
So what I have done is make some mini podcast episodes, if you like –
all about what to do If you're a creative type and you're having creative problems,
and also how to even get started with writing, or whatever else you want to do artwise.
We will cover everything – from finding inspiration to getting the sads, to creative burnout, to avoiding dark web narcotics.
The first few episodes are up on a separate channel,
there's a link below, and I will be uploading some more in the coming weeks – that's the plan, anyway.
I really hope you like them, I really hope they help with your creative endeavors;
big love, hope you're keeping safe, hope you're well.
New book coming soon, promise.
Dislike, unsubscribe, I detest you, goodbye... <3
===================================

Title: The Rememberer

I lived once on the ocean floor,
All robot help and sliding doors,
And thought seldom of the shore.
Until I received one night
A letter from my grandfather,
And the letter read:
"Dear Empty Head,
Ye who dwell on ocean's bed,
I send this by the cracked moon's light,
It likely be the last I write.
I'll take soon flight
For a long journey's while
To the Ninth Isle,
Remember me as I will you,
All tree houses and untied shoe,
In hope someday we meet again,
Your distant kin, Sebastian."
But a farewell by letter is little better
Than no farewell at all, so on a young man's whim,
For my grandfather, I set off in search of him...
I left by quiet my stately keep,
The escape was easy, guards asleep,
And wandered 'bout on tiptoe feet,
The tall glass halls and cold steel streets,
And found, at last, an airlock,
But for love or none
Could find no life suit or aqualung.
So, deep breath then,
I go to find Sebastian.
Then airlock open,
And off into the freezing hug of the dark ocean,
And struggling up, heart kicking like a drum then,
Limbs and lungs all done then,
And the next thing I knew, I woke again.
All gasping and flail, and wet as whales, 
And most pinned by wind
And water, a storm, ye, a storm,
Hell's teeth, and I at the center.
And I, swimming as though possessed,
And I, to die, and senses arrested,
And kick my legs in fit of fear
And knew no north from south or my mouth from my arse, as I rolled about in the water.
But God, air, and true wind on my face,
For I had not known such a thing
In all my remembering,
And though I might well drown and sink true down to the ocean floor once more in but a minute's stem,
For this moment, swirling in those salt eddies, I was a boy again.
And stormy though the night was hung,
Beyond that storm, I knew, the Sun.
Nay, but I was still at fate's behest, and had no interest in the valley of death,
And by width and breadth did trial about a long while,
And the water did carry me along and put my soul and breath asunder,
So this is how it ends, the long going under.
And with water in my mouth, goodnight.
Yes, give up air and everywhere,
Yes, goodnight. I go to seek a water sleep.
But fate was hard at play
And I woke again, this time day,
The storm a year away
So far as the sky told that story,
A beach whereupon the sea had spat me out like some dislikeable pip.
And I alive and washed ashore with bones and balls all sore,
And what's more, there in the sky's maw
Was the moon in cracked spoils of dead rock,
As though God Himself had struck it with his mighty Galactic co-
But nay, there a man approached along the sand and called to see if I was all right.
And his face became familiar of a sudden.
"Grandfather?" I said.
"Err, no?" replied he with concerned eyes on me and continued,
"Sir, whatever ordeal you've just been through
Has perhaps relieved the sense from you.
May I ask your name?"
And though I did my best not to show it –
My name, I realized, I did not know it.
And my companion helped me to my feet, led me down the beach,
And I walked bent double,
Still reeling from the morning's trouble.
Then said he, checking my memory,
"And how old is your grandfather?"
Said I, "I don't recall at all. Perhaps you're right, I'm rattled slight from the ocean."
"Okay," he said, "then which island is it you're from?"
"I'm not from an island," I said.
"I hail from beneath the sea and that great aquatic nursery.
For I am but twenty-one years old,
And from youth's throws, I escaped the watery below
For one last hour with the man who taught me all I know."
And slow he said, "But you are too young. You shouldn't be above the water.
Not until their one-hundredth year
Can nursery folk yet come up here."
I only avoided his chiding stare
And took great gulps of salt sea air.
Finally he said, "I think it best we find this grandfather of yours and get you to safe keeping.
No isle is distant, mind,
And I've a vehicle of my own design.
Come along. We'll make it wherever together."
And he led me to some great balloon whereupon we got in,
And though he touched no gauge or board,
The craft set off of its own accord.
We were out over the water then, and I saw the stories were true, so these lands were an archipelago,
many islands scattered higgledy here and there, and I shouted to the man,
"Are they a totality?"
"Nay," said he, "each is its own little principality,
And just like your nursery, one lives on the isle fitting of their age –
As you were too, if the rules you actually obeyed."
And pointing then he shouted:
"There that land of birch and oak
Does house those juvenile century folk,
And there that land with beach and pier
Suits those in their two hundredth year,
The three hundreders are to the west,
The fourth prefer the forest best,
And so on, I shan't recount them all,
We've not far to go and our time is small."
"Sir," I said, "with all these folk living so high on time's shelf,
I wonder if I might ask you how old you are yourself?"
And he replied, "Let's say if there be a tree
That needs watering once a century,
Then I have filled my watering can eight times so far."
I could not help but stare at this man who, ignoring his demeanor,
Appeared physically only five years my senior,
And in perfect health, but had somehow, eventually, aged eight centuries.
And before I could comment there appeared, upon the horizon,
Rising up skywards,
Some needle wound
At least ten thousand feet 'bove ground.
"Vishnu's arse!" I cried, "What is that?"
"A tower, whereby," he did reply,
"It kisses tongues the edge of sky,
And if you were to reach its spire,
You'd see the breadth of space entire.
It proves most convenient for ascending objects into orbit without need of fuel or speed.
And though keep your eyes open yet," he mumbled slight,
And five seconds hence did see him right,
For overhead and yonder yet
Were craft wide as twenty jumbo jets,
Seemingly sitting there in the air by dare of whim.
"Oh gods, you're all so clever!" I cried. "You built all of this?"
"Aye," he said. "Year to year ascended each
By hammer's knack and number's reach."
And quite a while we watched the scene,
His face sincere, then turned to me and said, "Young man,
be honest, What is it you want with your grandfather? Really?
Are you so bold, you can't just let the old be old?"
"Nay," I said, "I wish to talk with he who by longevitys, like you, has endured the centuries.
Besides he says he's going elsewhere and I'd like to follow him there.
His letter said the Isle of nines If that's his ground That's where I'm bound.
Actually, I wonder if I asked, dare you to get me there."
He was quiet a while, pokered face No smiles, and said
"so you think age leads to becoming some Great Sage do you?
Yes, I'll get you to your grandfather
But we'll take the scenic route on our way to the Isle of the nines"
"Fine," said I
our bearing changed then South was bound for some small spit of sandy ground
"I think," said he, "we'll search about and see if we can't out some of that wisdom you crave"
and before I could protest we'd set down and come ashore and were bounding over pier floor
and up then sand and jungle thick and Cut our way with will and stick and emerged before a town
in the suburbs folk were felling trees and hauling Shore great carts of iron ore
then further in were folk who looked as young as I and dancing 'Neath the broke moon sky
all necking bottles gin and beer then coupling up to disappear
which Isle is this, I asked my Friend. I'm barely two decades old they act younger yet.
The Isle of ones said he all here have aged at least one century
He left me down the winding paths of open debauchery and open bars
and folk who clear appeared They slept perhaps three days a year
and we came upon a woman bare, all dancing legs and wild blonde hair
My friend proclaimed "Oh Lady mayor I've brought for thee one cub straight from the nursery
and he has questions for his elders"
She regarded me with red eyes and regard tireder yet and said "nursery, huh?
Why here we've ditched the milk, but kept the bottle, ask away young Aristotle"
and the music did stop and all folk turned about with their drunk Blair stares poking out
and the lady mayor of the Isle of ones did close her eyes in great profund
I murmured "why, I am young and confused about everything and sure of nothing
but above all I should like to know how does one live well?
And how does one see far?
and how does one want for nothing and still acquire everything?"
I leant sure close and cupped my ear, the wisdom of one in her 100 years
whereby she replied, "the secret to acquiring everything? Buy it
how to see far? Squint
and how to live well? Well
I'd suggest you found your answer here for we've loads of drugs and high strength beer!"
and though I cried out for Clarification it was surely the end of that conversation
and my new companion led me back past trees and Lagoon to our waiting bright balloon
"What," I said, with confusion fat, "the holy
Fucking shit was that?"
and off we left it over the beach up Once again into the wind's reach.
"Look," he said, "True they're all one century
But since we live at least nine in these enlightened times they are but teenagers still. Aging is a relative thing
It wasn't long after life extension was perfected
We noticed that the older one dares to grow the more they prefer the company of those in years close to theirs They know
that is why each age lives on its own isle. You would have little of importance to say to a child
such is the gap ten times wider with us. So there it is."
I said, "'So there it is.' Why, my grandfather liked that phrase also."
"That may be," said he, "and yet your grandfather is not me."
And following his dead-end boon, I set eyes upon the fractured moon
I said, "Our pale lady of the night is not looking quite right
what happened to her?" "The Fall," he called. "Why, the world wasn't always such a peaceable place.
We once used to play war to keep score."
"How does one blow up a moon?" "By being smart enough to build technology that can do so and
simultaneously stupid enough to use it.
"Not too long from now, pieces of her will fall to the ground
and if any of us are still around by then, the air will turn deathly
and for sure no living thing will endure.
Save for those living beneath the sea." "Like me," I said,
"and what will everyone still above the sea do instead?"
He said "We've another destination in mind, where we might start over sensibly this time."
With a squint I call sight just slight of rising constructs in the far,
spires and towers for a crown, sure the mark of a city or town.
Said I, "Start over where? Over there?"
Said he, "Nay that is but the remains of nations
why sometimes on a new morning one can still make out the old world."
Said I "Well, who lives there?" "No one," he said, "Or the remains of the debt
the legacy of our forefathers, who'd rather blow up a moon than two teams agree on some tune
they might both peaceably dance to. To hell with them. For all our modern wonders, it's taken millennia to recover from their blunders.
And from the smallest of corners of my mind's eye
I Saw and heard the bright sounds of those dead towns
the blaring horns and thousand forms of life to those days prior to whatever
fire they cast on themselves. Back before science had learned to stand in defiance of aging and death, and almost under his breath
My old companion said, "The cruel irony is that many folk from that barbaric time still survive today since aging technology went their way
yet the human brain can only contain so many memories and so as they've aged they've forgotten the truth
of what they did to our planet and moon in their youth
and though the Catastrophes live on in their name they have by quirk of dementia escaped the blame.
What luck, what shame."
I said, "But you assume from the ruins that they knew what they were doing.
Maybe they meant well with their inventions and broke the world in spite of their best intentions?
"Right," he said, "I'm sure in their empty heads when they poisoned the ocean and took their wars to the moon they were really doing it for love and big bright red balloons."
And he looked off from our basket a moment and said,
"Sorry." Said I, "Don't apologize, why, all that anger in your eyes
makes me just then remember my grandfather's temper you so resemble him, see."
"That may be," said he, "and yet your grandfather is not me."
And I glanced ahead to find we were coming down again, not in a forest this time but a town of some kind.
Stark marble pillars and great mansions and villas and when we sat down a man came around and said,
"Welcome friends, why, please enjoy your stay- if you're going to park on the beach, by the way,
that'll be 20,000 shells." "Oh, add it to my tab," my companion said,
and with my confusion stark, we pushed on into a park
at the base of each tree, a sign declared a fee of 10,000 shells for sitting in its shade.
Likewise looking at the birds would cost the third of what one in a month, made.
So too were their charges for drinking from the water fountains or stopping to marvel at the mountains.
and we wandered down ostentatious and spacious streets,
and found we'd meet with folk tired and thin walking hurried checking their devices greeting each other with declarations of stock prices
Then pass piles of shells in little Laos and even the dirt and ants have been valued with little price tags
And we found a great conch shell a man waited outside so thin I wondered if he might already have died
My companion said sir, Mayor Hello. The mayor replied. Yes. Have you come about my stock portfolio?
Ah, no, this is my friend from beneath the sea and if you've a moment, he has some questions for thee. Yes
I said I'd like to know of you. How does one live well, and how does one see far?
And how does one the mayor interrupted and how many shells will you pay me to answer these?
none admittedly I said but you do look a little hungry and if you like you can have this banana for free
he snatched it from Me at once and said, ah I see this will revolutionize the economy
I said they literally grow on trees for free,
but he was already off on some tirade about the banana trade
He yelled. Why by this time next week? I'll be a banana coin billionaire
My companion led me away said perhaps that's enough economics for today
And we fled the commotion past the starving, Rich masses to our balloon back over the ocean
My companion said when the ones twos and threes are bored of their parties
They move for a while to the aisles of the fours fives and sixes to pursue a game of riches
I said But they're all starving themselves. Yes. He said but look at all their pretty shells Eh, don't worry yourself
by the time they reach their 7th century. It becomes pretty evidentiary
There's more to the world than just wealth said I but what's the point in all this?
undying populations on little island nations Hosting parties heeding the markets call
while above each day The moon sidles closer to come crashing down and ending at all.
Why my companion said
though It's easy to miss there is a point to all this
The ones twos and threes they party nightly Yes,
but by day they mind the metal and fell the trees we need for new technologies for spaceship walls and ceiling beams Exotic matter machines,
then the fours fives and sixes why they don't just pursue riches
by evening They take the felled trees and ore and ensure by the great space tether that it is all ascended into orbit then assembled together
into one great metal vessel
It is the most ambitious thing ever built from man's imagining
and not a few weeks from now 10 million of us
Will empty our drawers and lock our doors and kiss. Goodbye the Mountains and valleys and climb to that waiting galley
and once boarded each find ourselves afforded Four-poster cryogenic beds there to lay our heads for decades yet
and then in liquid nitrogen 10 liters deep 10 million souls in no dreams sleep
and each space support that isn't there to accommodate our frozen beds
will carry instead What's left of the past each species will ride with us
from cabbage tree to New zealand kauri every Evergreen and deciduous, cedar, to cork, to eucalyptus every genus and Venus flytrap
kept maintained by clockwork brains
And what's more pig, donkey, boar, fly, swan, Crustacean, Dalmatian, domestic Or wild we've every gene on Petri filed.
hell Neanderthals and early man too
and we fly. out beyond the broken moon a hard left past Jupiter. We wish him Goodbye
passing straight through the Oort cloud Turning about to enjoy the view
then setting sail on physics not so much in numbers indenture
But stolen from one of God's more surreal magic mushroom adventures
contracting space before our noses Expanding it beyond our asses
will show time and Einstein a thing or two
until we fly faster than Zeno's racing tortoise
or poor Swift Achilles who trailed then after and
and Roused again we'll find we have arrived on the doorstep of a new house
Gravity that of earth and with an Earth's worth already of forests, and seas, and lakes, and trees
and in the midday sky We'll find not one Sun as we had before
but two in Circumbinary awe.
and though we'll bring food and clothes and build schools and roads
and paint our mark on every damage of the thing So it one great living pearl among 10,000 dead world's
not a gram of our stupid past and smuggle itself down onto the ground
No Denial of what is in favor of what one wishes
no slinking off to watch TV and leaving some other poor bastard to do the dishes.
science, truth, art, objectivity, universal human regard
then finally the death of war and ignorance
and that Infernal library of excuses for I, me, my while you still lie in the gutter and starve and die
We will build a world untainted by selfish bastards where we'll be free range humans at last
and do whatever we fucking like all day and lay great brilliant eggs of knowledge and wisdom
and live under two suns at The expense of no one
finally out under the above for love for love
That is the night Isle and we set off and not a week's while
for our species. Try a one last. Pardon
We are going alone together
back to the garden
Ah Said me, sounds swell and what about those of us in the nursery do we get to come as well.
that's complicated. He said
we approached at last over a new isle of yet another style
My companion said to me why it seems you and I are at the end of our journey
the Isle of the eights For almost the century that has been the land upon where I lay my hat
Over we passed I peeked in through the glass of the windows all wide and saw books stacked as towers and folk reading inside
What do they do? I said they and you
Said he I told you of the soon trip to our new home
and though we have solved much of the perils of travels in Space
there is but one more problem we faced on
our journey We want to take with us every film and thesis every book and treatise the mulch of every culture
But not even the moon would have enough room to store those works physically
and digitally If we were to store it That way
cosmic rays would see wipe it right out in but a few hundred days mid-flight
and so we found a method Yes a fur
Human brains
each seven and eight like me commits to their memory some chosen book or speech to preserve until we reach the new house
We learn to remember to not forget I said and which work lives in your head
said he prose and poetry Eighteenth to 23rd century
for like you I once had a grandfather who showed me the world in a manner I could understand
Back when the old world was still new and so was I I'd sit on his knee and he'd reached me long into the evening
of fiction and farce or whatever I asked and for all those stories absurd they gave me a passion for the percussion of words and
That's how I knew what it was. I'd remember
I said and your grandfather now is he Yet still alive?
but our basket sat down then at last we'd arrived.
we Disembarked single file on another new Beach on another new Isle
nay. I said wait, I remember this land aye, he said it's the same from the one we began
and then standing not feet from our great steed balloon was a woman there Staring at the dead fractured moon
the woman called out why what a fair moon this evening aged So it's the exudes a vital glow
she turned on me said though true the same cannot be said for you
Well, no I said since I am not aged so
my companion bowed his head said nothing Oh ye
she said what the centuries have done to your memory.
I replied you must be mistaken I am from the nursery
said she there is nursing there certainly, but for those so aged they cannot nurse themselves
I am the matron of the nursing dome and I am here to take you home
by choice Will you come back with me or need I summon armed security
now Look I said I am 20 or 21 rather and I have come to find my grandfather
So why she said yet? You walk hunched and move slow such would we expect of one born a millennium ago?
What said I and raised a hand to my eyes and found the skin was cracked and cold or one might venture old
She said how to put it Well, oh, yes Your generation is the reason the fall fell
all greed and in need of speed and more patting yourselves on the back for progress
Meanwhile, leaving every garden unweeded and all who fell behind unfed then dead
You have been honorably discharged of being dishonorably in charge
and while we aren't as cruel as to have you all put down We sure Shant opt for having you around
and so you are most welcome to the ocean floor where you shan't ruin the world Yet more.
Yeh beneath the sea there are jigsaw puzzles and rocking chairs that wait again for thee next time
We'll be sure to lock the doors. I am taking you back to the seabed once more
to the matron My companion said why I'm sorry. I took him on a tour of the land I only hoped he'd remember or at least understand
but before you bring him home might for five minutes you leave us alone
Rose a skeptical eyebrow on her skeptical face though. She nodded and plodded off some while away
Oh gods, I cried and closed my eyes to my companion I said this is the dementia you mentioned.
Yes he said I thought maybe with an hour or two it would come back to you and you'd return to the nursing dome on your
Own it's time for you to go home if there's anything I can do for you
Yes You can said I let me lie here for the rest of my days
above the water in some semblance of a dignified way
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. He said I wish you luck in all hence.
I said don't apologize There's no taken offense
Why in a day or two I suppose I'll remember neither the beach nor you
Thank you for my big day out.
We hugged them in the awkward male fashion two loose grips and a little back tapping
He turned about bound inland bound starwort.
No great elation. No great despair I simply gulped the salt sea air
and wondered then if I would ever breathe it again
My companion paused and turned about let out they gave me an early warning
the nursing dome I mean when you made your great escape
Gave me time to reach the beach and wait in hope you'd rise alive from the waters
And so you did and so I found you
Early warning why I said What're you to me or I to thee
he said my grandfather was never the sort to go quietly Once caught
said I that may be and yet your grandfather is not me
said he
but you are
Have you been so by time defiled? You don't recall your own grandchild?
It was I who sent a letter hoping for the better you'd recall who I was
and though you remembered me fine You mixed me up in time. I did not want to leave you down here without one last try Oh, goodbye
I didn't know for my sake you'd stage a fucking Prison Break. I only meant to say goodbye
Well I said then hello
Oh God I remember
between the fields and owls and Shrike long hours teaching you how to ride a bike.
Yes He said yes said me
I remember year upon my knee and from the elm tree sat ten starlings deep and I'd read to you till you fell asleep
Yeah, he said
and the alphabet and cigarettes and Ethernet and tape cassettes
it was the old world and I think of it every day and I think of you on the sea bed every day
and because Ruin the world or not You are my grandfather and I am your blood
and while you may not remember those Kindnesses you did me when I was little I do and I will remember for both of us
And if one day I have children, I will tell them of you
So they even when I am gone your kindnesses will thread on down the hooks of your descendants
And then your kindnesses will never die
And when both of us are gone when we're only stories it will still live on
until there and all the time and space snuff To dust and dust enough. There'll be two facts lying leftover in dead eternity
that You are my grandfather and I loved you
and I cannot spend another week worrying that alone and decrepit beneath the sea sits you while I won't soft as Xanadu
even if I make it to the edge of space over the threshold We'll still be there your old sad face
I said yet all the while you are still bound for the ninth Isle and I for jigsaws and sliding doors
I just hope you recall me in good stead
he replied then you may wish of me the same tomorrow for I am staying right beside your empty head
and I Protested but you set off for the Stars in not a week You said
Rockets be damned said my grandson one day they'll build another. It's what humans do
but grandfathers are a one-time Construction and these may be my last days with you.
Let's run back to the old world. Let's find the tree ten starlings deep and I'll read you till you fall asleep
and if little pieces of yesterday come back to you Whenever
then tell me and we'll remember them together
and back down the beach back to the balloon We're off on the wind then and under the moon
at lasts borne back ceaselessly into the past
And from our basket Sebastian yelled with all his might.
Hey matron go fuck yourself big kiss. Good night
The new world pulled away behind and on some perfect fever dreams frontier the old world drew near
something Waited and though dead for sure it waited to receive us once More
and my grandson began to shout the poems would known from the tomes we'd owned and the lines came back easily even to me
We remembered we remembered together.
Let us go then you and I he yelled when the evening is spread out against the sky I replied
like a patient etherized upon a table Let us go through certain half-deserted streets the muttering retreats
of restless nights and one night cheap hotels and Sawdust restaurants with oysters
about about in reel and route the deaf fires Danced at night the water like a witch's oils burned green and blue and white
and summoned dreams Assured world the spirit that plagued us so nine fathom deep here followed us from the land of mist and snow
In Xanadu did Kubla Khan a stately pleasure-dome decree where alph the sacred River ran through caverns measureless to man down to a sunless sea
So twice five miles of fertile ground with walls and towers were girth round and there were Gardens bright with sinuous rills Where blossomed many an incense bearing trees and he were forest
(V.O fades out)
===================================

Title: The Moon is a Door to Forever

July 1969,
you're probably an ex-test pilot with a Boy Scout badge for spitting in the face of death,
and on that day you find yourself at Kennedy Space Center,
wearing a spacesuit and about to board a strange machine.
The machine is called "the Saturn 5 rocket", and is about three blue whales high,
weighs about as much as thirty-five 737s,
and very shortly, a million liters of liquid oxygen are going to mix with 700,000 liters of kerosene,
and the machine is gonna go *brrrr*,
and quite possibly KILL YOU DEAD!
So you hop in with your two other mates, strap up,
and try to ignore the fact that you're about to ride the explosive equivalent of 400 tons of TNT up into the sky
on the back of seven and a half million pounds of thrust.
And sure enough, a system of valves open below you, mixing the liquid oxygen and kerosene, and are ignited.
The cabin rocks left to right with the guidance computer gimballing the five gigantic F-1 engines 300 feet below you,
desperately trying to stop you smashing into the launch tower.
You are squashed back into your seat four times your normal weight.
By 9:35 AM you're 42 miles high, riding 5% for America's federal budget into the morning sky.
By 9:44 AM, the first two stages of the rocket are jettisoned, and you're 118 miles high.
By 12:22 PM you're in orbit, going at 24,000 miles an hour –
or, if you prefer, speeding around the Earth at about 17 times faster than a bullet.
By 12:49, you get the word you'll go for trans-lunar injection.
A few minutes of engine burn later, and you're now headed out of Earth orbit.
You blow the bolts connecting the two sections of your rocket ship, separating your module from the lunar module,
spin them around and dock again.
The Earth begins to recede behind you.
By 2:45 PM, you are now riding 26 tons of food, instruments, and science at about 25,000 miles an hour.
You are the commander of Apollo 11.
And while two NASA missions have orbited the Moon already,
yours will now attempt to be the first to land and stand on that alien world.
Fun fact: peeing in zero gravity is a nightmare.
To counteract this, since all Apollo astronauts were men,
engineers developed a system whereby one would urinate into a condom attached to a hose.
The condom sizes came in "small", "medium", and "large".
Legend has it that some astronauts were choosing the large size based on pride,
and some were making a mess because it wasn't the right size.
Allegedly, NASA opted to rename the sizes
"extra-large",
"immense",
and "unbelievable".
*Genuine giggle*
Yeah! Space exploration!
Anyway, what is this big white thing you're flying towards? Where did it come from?
Well, no one knows for sure yet.
The leading theory is that about four billion years ago something about the size of Mars – a planet we've called Theia –
hit the Earth, and bits of the Earth came off, and eventually collected together into old Moonface McGee herself.
She's about 81 times lighter than the Earth, about ⅓ the diameter –
bigger than Pluto, by the way, but most things are –
and her gravity is around ⅙ ours.
It takes the Moon 27 days to orbit us properly,
but it also takes the Moon 27 days to turn once on her axis,
which means we only ever see one side of the Moon.
The reason the moon looks different to us through the month is her position relative to the Sun.
As she swings around us, she's either between us and the Sun, called "new moon",
waxes into the first quarter, then full,
wanes into third quarter, and back to new.
And moons in our solar system aren't unique at all:
Mars has 2, Neptune has 14, Saturn has 82,
but we are the only planet in our solar system with one moon, weirdly,
and she is by far the largest, relative to her planet.
No good explanation for any of that yet, but boy, are we glad she's here!
She kindly regulates the tides and stops us wobbling on our axis.
All in all, very pretty, very mysterious,
And would you look at that – you're almost there.
Well, about 33,000 miles away, but you've entered the Moon's sphere of influence.
That means the Moon has more gravitational power over you than the Earth does.
Shoes off! Best behavior, please!
You're in her house now.
Out the window and below is a barren expanse, a visual history of great violence:
craters where comets hit, some as wide as 175 kilometers in diameter.
one astronaut stays in the command module, while you and your colleague transfer to the lunar module.
And before you know it, you're separated and descending to the surface.
Ancient and dead volcanoes have covered the Moon in 23 of what our ancestors mistook for "maria" –
Latin for "seas", as we still call them today.
the Sea of Crises, the Eastern Sea,
and there, our destination –
the Sea of Tranquility.
But you're traveling too fast for some reason, and overshooting the landing spot.
Still, you've come all this way, and you'll be damned if you quit here.
6,000 feet above now, alarms go off: 1201 and 1202.
No one back on Earth is sure what that even means, but they advise you to carry on with the descent.
Beside you, your co-pilot calls out the altitude.
you're now coming down on the southwestern edge of the Sea of Tranquility,
but there are boulders the size of trucks everywhere – no sign of flat. You can't land here.
You take over manual control, desperately looking for a smooth area to set down,
the biometric sensors reading your heart rate at 156 beats per minute.
700 feet, 400 feet, fuel is dribbling away.
If you can't find a safe spot, you have to abort the entire mission.
150 feet, 75 dropping still,
then a dust cloud kicks up beneath you –
five feet,
two,
one and a half,
one,
and your co-pilot calls contact light,
and with a jolt and only 15 seconds of fuel left...
You're down.
And you say...
"Tranquility Base here. The Eagle has landed."
The schedule calls for the two of you to sleep,
but you're the first humans to visit the Moon, for God's sake.
During this time, your co-pilot takes Holy Communion, though does it on the quiet:
NASA is currently engaged in a lawsuit with an atheist who had objections to a previous mission orbiting the Moon,
and reading from the Bible as it did so.
Then, at 2:39 AM, you open the hatch and slowly descend the ladder.
You pull a lever, activating the camera already on the outside of the lunar module to witness what is about to come next.
You reach the bottom of the ladder, still standing on the leg now.
You observe the surface of the Moon is granular, almost like powder.
You uncover a plaque on the lunar module, saying:
"Here men from the planet Earth first set foot upon the Moon. July 1969, A.D.
We came in peace for all mankind."
Tentatively, you step back with your left foot onto the first celestial body humankind has ever visited.
And having been allowed to choose those first words on a new world, you say:
"That's one small step for _a_ man, one giant leap for mankind."
Which will later be misquoted repeatedly without the indefinite article, as "One small step for man",
Which makes no sense, if you think about it, because that would mean "one small step for Humanity, one giant leap for Humanity",
but whatever – you're on the Moon.
Your colleague exits the lunar module, pausing on the ladder a few moments to become the first human ever to urinate while outside on the Moon,
then joins you on the surface.
You erect a United States flag and accept a call directly from your then-president Richard Nixon.
The two of you experiment with transport methods, including kangaroo hops,
you set up scientific equipment, you take photos, collect ground samples...
But this picnic runs on oxygen.
So, two and a half hours later after setting foot down here,
the two of you climb the ladder again, and return to the lunar module, and attempt to sleep.
You sleep – not very well, but... a little.
It's time now to go home.
You're both relying on a single ascent engine that can only be fired once, meaning one chance to leave.
Your colleague has somehow damaged the circuit breaker for the engine in the course of moving about.
You jam a felt-tip pen in there, hoping that –
h-hoping –
your third colleague will be flying overhead shortly, waiting to rendezvous if all goes well.
The ascent engine is fired, everything goes fine.
At ⅙ Earth's gravity, making it into orbit is a doddle.
your colleague catches you in orbit perfectly, and you're reunited.
A burn to leave lunar orbit, and you're on your way –
back home to praise, and awards, and another Boy Scout badge for not only spitting in the face of death,
but kicking him right in the disco stick too,
and curiously, several hours later on the television sets of the world,
people, American and non-American, will say: "we did it".
"WE did it".
As if that plaque left on the surface rings true already:
"WE came in peace for all mankind".
And during your three-day journey back to Earth,
perhaps you wonder when we'll come back to the Moon.
In four months, actually,
then five months later, but that doesn't go so well...
Nine months later, that time goes fine;
six months later,
nine months, and then the last mission eight months later.
And as much as it might surprise you to hear,
for the next half century humans will never leave Earth orbit again.
Oh, there'll be shuttles, and space stations, horrific disasters, collaboration –
but all from the tether of Earth's gravity.
For us in the future, though, things might finally be about to change.
Firstly, NASA have committed themselves to returning to the moon with humans by 2024 as of today,
and they've been busy bees, designing the Space Launch System to launch in 2021.
It could get us back to the Moon, EASY.
But now we have commercial projects taking off: SpaceX, Blue Origin, Boeing –
all of them vying to get us back on the lunar surface.
Things. Are. Occurring!
Obviously, going back to the Moon for science is attractive,
but science probably won't be enough to keep us there,
because cha-ching-ching, etc.
There are plenty of resources for mining on the Moon:
gold, platinum, yadda-yadda,
and, rather more unique, helium-3 – an isotope useful for nuclear fusion.
But the real dog's gonads to go back for is more spacing.
The moon would be a perfect base of operations for,
AH: serving as a practice ground for learning how to live in hostile places
for when we go to certain other planets soon –
which we will –
and BUH: fueling up and maintaining vehicles leaving Earth on their way beyond to other spots in the Solar System –
when we go,
which we will!
Also, we could build mass drivers to shoot objects elsewhere with no need for propellant,
establish farms, schools, administration...
Buzz Aldrin took a wee on the Moon first day, whatever...
But, a beginning. A point of departure to the rest of the Solar System.
And one day – long from now, but one day –
beyond the Solar System, too. Perhaps.
If this is what you wake up to every morning,
if this is the view from your lunar window,
how would you feel about our petty squabbles back on Earth?
No astronaut has ever returned from space and said:
"Yeah, the universe was alright...
Not as good as a nice fight though, eh?
COME 'ERE YA LITTLE-" *bleeep*
Almost all of them came back more placid, more prudent, and more inclined to see our planet as the fragile marble that it is.
And as those lunar humans would look down on our fragile condition,
we'd look up at them every night,
and it would be a constant reminder not only of the power of human endeavor,
but that we're out in the universe now.
And surely that would change all of us down here.
And if we're very lucky,
maybe even change us for the better.
Fifty years later, we're still living in the shadow of the Apollo program,
when hundreds of thousands of men and women came together,
spent a titanic amount of money, utilized an ungodly amount of brainpower
to achieve something that was, by any estimation, impossible –
and they did it.
Some days It feels like we've forgotten how to do this:
to dream crazy big – together,
to reach for something – together,
to look out beyond bickering and this "my team-your team" rubbish.
There's an infinite playground just waiting out there
for us, to explore as brothers and sisters.
Obviously, the Apollo program came directly out of competition between the US and the Soviet Union.
It's not like the US went to the Moon just 'cause they fancied a nice view.
but the solidarity inside the Apollo program
and the directed attention of the American citizenry towards space
was like nothing we've ever seen before.
Many of you watching this, and me – we weren't alive to see the Moon landings.
We didn't grow up with a single event in media that was a human project, on behalf of the entire species.
How will we feel when we see that first man or woman putting that first boot down on the red sands of Mars?
I, for one, will be crying my eyes out,
just happy I got to live long enough to see my species at the beginning of leaving its cradle
and finally learning to walk.
And then we will learn to run:
to the orbits of Venus, Titan,
Ganymede – wherever we feel like!
Because that is us. Because audacity is what we do.
Sometimes violently, sometimes misguidedly,
but sometimes, every now and then, in solidarity – together,
and for the love of reaching one mountain peak just the look to the next.
In our solar system waiting – for us! – there are seven new mountains,
with seven new sunrises and seven new sets of secrets.
And if THAT doesn't unify us – Christ, nothing will.
And it will all start with the Moon, our home away from home,
as the springboard into the multiplanetary age of the human being.
"We choose to go back to the Moon and do the other things –
not because they are easy, but because they are cool!"
To follow our evolutionary imperative, as it began with our emergence from the oceans
and our many perilous diasporas across this great blue-green spaceship.
"We've been on six dates together, Moon!
Sorry we ghosted you, we've been going through some stuff!
But we've changed, Moon – no more long distance, oh no,
let's get it together properly.
We're sliding back into DMs, baby! How 'bout it?
Let's settle down together and raise a solar civilization, eh?"
These are precarious times.
So too were they precarious half a century ago, when those first explorers set off for space.
If we can hold it together, this might be just the beginning of the beginning for our species.
Because we are currently audacity monkeys,
but we could be forever monkeys, if we wanted to.
And the moon is clearly our door...
into that forever.
===================================

Title: The Ants

It so happened that I was sat in the sun with a book,
and just as I was about to nod off, a little voice called out:
"Excuse me, what is this for?"
A small ant had crawled across the page of my book, and was now sat staring up at me.
"What?" I said.
"Excuse me," the ant said, "what is this for?"
"What is what for?" I said.
"This great black and white expanse I'm standing on now," it tapped the book with a little black leg.
"Look," I said, "you wouldn't understand even if I explained it to you."
"That might be so," the ant said, "but though I am very small, I am also very curious,
and I don't want to turn to dust having known nothing at all.
So, if you would, please – what is this for?"
He stood up on his two back legs, eagerly awaiting my answer,
and his antennae stood to attention most respectfully. I said:
*Sigh* "It's like this: you're standing on a page. Pages are made from trees, we put lots of them together and call it a book."
"What is a book for, then?" the ant said.
"Well, it stores thoughts," I said. "That way, we can transmit them to other people very far away."
"How?" the ant said.
"Now, look, this isn't the time or place," I said, a little too firmly.
The ant bowed his tiny head, and his antennae wilted.
I said softly: "Look, you see those little black squiggles –
excuse me; to you, very big black squiggles about you on the page?"
The ant nodded.
"Those are words and numbers."
"They don't look like words and numbers," the ant said.
"They represent them," I said.
"Hmm," the ant said and thought about this a while.
I said: "Do you understand?"
The ant said: "Not really. You were right. It's beyond me. But though I'll never be as clever as you animals,
I'm at least a little cleverer than I was a moment ago. So thank you for that."
"You're welcome", I said.
"Well, good luck on being a thing in the world," the ant said.
"Good luck to you, too," I said.
The little ant made off on his way and disappeared into the grass.
I read to the end of my page, but could not forget the little ant.
Eventually, I looked up from the book – to the trees, to the mountain, to the sky.
The moon was climbing up for evening, birds were migrating in the distance.
I called out: "Excuse me, what is this for?"
"What?" came a booming voice above.
"This great green and blue sphere I'm standing on now,"
I patted the ground with my foot,
"What is all this for?"
"Look," the voice said, "you wouldn't understand even if I explained it to you."
"That might be so," I shouted, "but though I am very small, I am also very curious,
and I don't want to turn to dust having known nothing at all.
So, if you would, please – what is all this for?"
And the voice said:
*Sigh*
"It's like this..."
===================================

Title: Sleep is Just Death Being Shy

I was maybe six years old, driving somewhere at night with my dad,
and I took a little nap, and I woke up, and he said:
"Where did you go?"
And I said:
"I... dunno."
And he said:
"Well, what do you reckon sleep is for?"
And I said:
"I... dunno."
And he said:
"Sleep's kinda weird though, huh?"
And I said:
"...Eeeh..."
And he said:
"Sleep is a lot like dying, really, isn't it?"
And I said:
"I'm six FUCKING YEARS OLD!"
The Greek god of sleep is called Hypnos.
He has a brother called Thanatos, and he's the god of death.
This is gonna be a jolly 10 minutes!
Sleep makes no sense.
It leaves us completely defenseless for hours on end,
and it probably isn't even for saving energy, either.
Compared to just lying around awake, sleep will save you about a hundred calories,
or a banana of slightly above average... girth.
Humans need about eight hours sleep a night, but our animal friends vary wildly.
Koalas prefer 22 hours,
bunnies about nine,
elephants need just four,
and however badly your day is going,
I would like to invite you to just enjoy this picture of an elephant calf taking a nap for a moment.
There. That's better, isn't it?
No, me neither.
But whatever sleep is for, it's so essential that nature wired it into almost every half-intelligent organism on the planet.
For example, dolphins.
If they slept like us, they would drown, because they don't have gills, and they need oxygen.
So they sleep unihemispherically – that is, they float just below the water,
and one side of their brain sleeps while the other stays awake, then they swap over.
Human death rehearsal –
heh, excuse me, I mean, sleep –
is a bit more straightforward:
teeth, toilet, spot of hysterical crying – and it's off to the Land of Nod.
Stage 1: brainwaves slow down a bit.
Stage 2: your pulse will slow down, and you'll begin producing sleep spindles,
which are little bursts of brainwaves that...
Well, we don't know what they do exactly, but
they look a bit- they look a bit like that...
So...
heh...
Yeah...
Stages 3 and 4 are the deepest levels of sleep.
Growth hormone is released, tissue is being repaired,
then stage 5:
Rapid Eye Movement, or REM stage.
Your brain kindly paralyzes your body, mostly;
the eyes roll about, the face twitches,
brainwaves go mental,
and this is where about 80% of dreams occur.
Anyway, the funny part about all this, of course, is when we're not dreaming while asleep –
where do we go?
It's just black, it's just oblivion – every night, over and over.
Because sleep is just death being shy.
If we got news that an asteroid was approaching, scheduled for arrival, say, 60 years from now,
and it was so gigantic it would wipe out our entire civilization,
we would probably go fucking nuclear.
Riots, war – maybe end the world before the asteroid even arrived.
And yet, there IS an asteroid, approaching slowly in the distance,
but it only gets one of us at a time,
and we practice for it every night.
And its name... is Death.
With an asteroid, the whole species will be gone in a few days, probably.
With death as it stands today, though,
maybe we take comfort in the fact that even though we'll be gone,
the world will still carry on without us.
But ignoring technology and politics, we do know a bit about the future we'll all miss out on.
And if it cheers you up, we can take a little tour of that future.
Just for fun, let's say sometime in the next few years you become a parent to two children,
and that the average human generation cycle is about 30 years.
Well, by the 2080s we're two generations down the line.
You are now a grandparent, and six humans have inherited your DNA.
If humans have made it to Mars, on November 10th, 2084,
the colonists will witness the transit of Earth from Mars –
the Earth resembling a black disc, passing across the Sun.
2110, another generation later,
and assuming humans have, on average, two children,
your children have grandchildren now, and you have 14 descendants.
It's quite possible they attended your funeral.
Don't worry, everyone got smashed in the pub afterwards, and said nice things about your hair.
The world population is probably around 11 billion humans, having jumped 4 billion in just a century.
The 2140s, another generation.
All things being equal, 30 humans now carry your genes.
2200 – another generation – and we're into the 23rd century.
Halley's Comet has just reached its perihelion;
you have 62 descendants.
The mid-2200s, now six generations –
that's 126 descendants of yours.
Leeloo and Korben Dallas will shortly be initiating a romantic relationship,
and by the end of this century, still at two children per generation,
you now have 2050 descendants.
We can no longer even speculate what culture and technology looks like, so...
Year 12,000 AD, 240 generations later.
If sex is even still in fashion, you now have at least several million descendants.
The star Antares has just gone supernova, probably,
and will be visible from the Earth even in daylight.
Year 52,000 AD, 1,500 generations of your progeny later,
and the Earth's rotation will have slowed enough, courtesy of the Moon,
that we'll need to add a leap second to preserve timekeeping.
Year 100,000 AD, 3,000 generations later.
You might recognize the constellations, but they'll be altered –
the handle of the Big Dipper getting a little relaxed at the back, for example.
250,000 AD, 7,500 generations later.
Loihi, currently a submarine volcano in 2019, will have risen out of the ocean and become a volcanic island.
2 million AD.
The Grand Canyon erodes to surround the Colorado River,
if there is, indeed, still a Colorado River left.
50 million AD.
Eurasia and Africa collide, forming an entirely new mountain range.
500 to 600 million AD.
It's possible Earth's continents have fused back into a single supercontinent.
A day on Earth has probably gained at least an hour.
Our moon is now so distant, solar eclipses never happen again.
One billion AD.
The Sun is now ten percent more luminous, meaning our oceans have begun to evaporate.
Plant life is... unlikely.
Four billion AD.
The Milky Way, our galaxy, and our neighboring galaxy Andromeda collide, forming Milkomeda.
Ten billion AD.
The Sun is now 256 times its current size, and has almost certainly swallowed Mercury, Venus, and Earth.
One trillion AD.
It's possible the Big Crunch has now begun, the remains of the universe falling back in on herself.
Galactic clusters will begin to converge, stars will collide,
the resulting explosions illuminating the heavens nearby and distant.
Eventually, the black holes of the universe will collide with one another,
amassing into a single super-supermassive black hole consuming itself.
One quadrillion AD.
It's also possible no Big Crunch will occur, and the universe will continue to expand indefinitely.
In this scenario the main points of interest for the next almost infinite period of time will be the decay of nucleons –
that's protons and neutrons –
beginning an era in which only black holes exist in the universe,
and, assuming a new universe has not begun,
the current universe will achieve its final resting energy:
uninhabited, uninhabitable, barren –
perpetual, limitless dark,
with no recourse to the fecundity that once teemed within the boundaries of creation.
We all must have gone through that phase as a kid, when it hit us:
"Well, people die eventually,
and mom and dad are people,
and I'm a person, so...
OH GOD!"
Some of us, including your pompous narrator here, never recovered from that phase.
It is simply too much: to live as the only animal that knows its projects and loves and lifetimes are limited,
and when the animal is gone, after a while it'll be as though the animal never was at all.
And that is a notion too wide and spiky to fit inside the head.
The things we will miss after we're gone:
the parties, the births of humans we would come to love,
all the walks, all the hugs,
all the plucky steps into the dark our species will take yet.
Homo sapiens?
Yeah, right – homo nihilus, more like.
The only animal conscious of its approaching demise,
and conscious of the world's approaching demise, too.
I suspect you, like me, have run into these people in life,
who are terribly clever, and yet terribly broken.
Because they've looked into the abyss and concluded that on a long enough time scale,
and in a universe so wide and apparently indifferent, we have no ultimate significance,
and the point has dropped out of everything for them.
But there IS a middle way between denial – "I'm so fucking important, look at my bank balance", etc. –
and despair – "there's no point to anything if we all just go off into the dark", etc.
Because the world is just this fantastical as it is horrific,
and it's just as arbitrary to lose hope as it is to find it.
If everything was forever, would that really change so much?
80 years or a trillion – beer would still taste just as good, wasps would still be pricks –
Fuck you, wasps!
– and maybe tomorrow we'll kill aging, and death, and stay up infinitely past bedtime.
But as it stands today, we don't have the science yet.
And so, god-fearing or not, we have to find some way of making peace with the thing.
For you it might be religion, or some variant of spirituality – and, fair enough.
But I'll tell you what works for me personally, though.
When it's late, and I can't sleep, and the abyss starts whispering about how I'm gonna go into the dark one day,
I keep in mind that whether I like it or not, I am part of something bigger –
an experiment conducted across the entire planet,
conducted across all of history –
called "us".
Somewhere in the future, we are gone, and someone who loves us is remembering us.
Somewhere ahead of that, they are gone, and someone who loves them is remembering them.
The interminable rise and fall of generations.
How many of us have been and gone down here since we became Homo sapiens?
Billions, at the very least.
To have stubbed one's toe,
to have heard a new word and looked it up,
to have yelled at the GPS as though it's the GPS's fault you got lost,
to have watched another human blowing their nose or picking their teeth, or something equally disgusting, and quietly thought to oneself,
"Oh, fuck – I've fallen in love with you, haven't I..."
Just to have BEEN anything – what a weird honor!
If sleep is just death being shy, then waking up is atoms being miraculous.
The fact that for about 80 years atoms know they're even atoms at all,
courtesy of being humans.
Birth, death, the silly bit in between –
if none of it has any ultimate significance,
if, on a cosmic scale, none of it matters...
does that really fucking matter?
We won't last forever, but while we're here,
What a silly decision it would be to waste our day out in the cosmos –
that brief period of time when matter woke up,
on a world as interesting as this one,
with hair as excellent as yours,
with all the other talking carbon units around us
that we can hang out with, and be fond of, and talk shit to,
and keep the abyss well at bay.
And if all that wasn't enough, just in case...
In the words of Ursula K. Le Guin, a human who left us just last year:
"When I take you to the Valley, you'll see the blue hills on the left and the blue hills on the right,
the rainbow and the vineyards under the rainbow late in the rainy season,
and maybe you’ll say, 'There it is, that’s it!'
But I’ll say, 'A little farther.'
We’ll go on, I hope,
and you’ll see the roofs of the little towns and the hillsides yellow with wild oats,
a buzzard soaring and a woman singing by the shadows of a creek in the dry season,
and maybe you’ll say, 'Let’s stop here, this is it!'
But I’ll say, 'A little farther yet.'
And we’ll go on, and you’ll hear the quail calling on the mountain by the springs of the river,
and looking back you’ll see the river running downward through the wild hills behind, below,
and you’ll say, 'Isn’t that the Valley?'
And all I will be able to say
is 'Drink this water of the spring,
rest here awhile,
we have a long way yet to go,
and I can’t go without you.'”
===================================

Title: Upsilon Dies Backwards

Horse walks into bar.​
Barman says:​
Horse says:​
Barman says:​
Horse says: "Yeah, I've heard it before. Uh-"​
"-being that I'm, in fact, a horse, and..."​
Barman says: "Okay, look, i-it was just a joke."​
And Horse says: "...secondly, frankly-"​
"-you degenerate little scrote."​
[music dies]​
[cough]​
Barman says: "Uh..."​
Horse says: "Yeah-"​
Barman says: "Look, it's alright, I- I shouldn't have been so rude."​
Horse says: "Ah, it's-"​
"I feel like I'm in someone else's imagination, you know?-"​
Barman says: "Wow, cloppy, that's... deep."​
Pelican walks into bar.​
Pelican says:​
"Any of you fucking pigs ​​move​ and I'll​ ​execute every last-"​
Oliver wakes from a horrific dream – a joke set in a bar with talking animals.​
Oliver lives on the fifth floor of a modern apartment block.​
He is of average height,​
he dislikes asparagus,​
he adores the work of Andrei Tarkovsky.​
Below Oliver, in number 23, is Agatha.​
She is of average height,​
she dislikes Venice, specifically gondoliers,​
she adores the work of Isaac Asimov.​
Agatha and Oliver do not realize they live in the same modern apartment block.​
They have met only once, and it was a bit shit.​
It transpired in this fashion:​
Oliver owns a Newfoundland dog called Bertrand.​
He is of average height,​
he dislikes Pavlov's experiments,​
he adores the work of Comrade Laika.​
One Saturday afternoon, Oliver required nourishment for Bertrand the Newfoundland​
and, by chance, wandered into Agatha's pet shop.​
Oliver apprehended Agatha was reading​ ​a book called "A Scanner Darkly",
a personal favorite of his.​
Agatha apprehended Oliver was clearly incapable of dressing himself, and perhaps, like her,​
was also only ever pretending at being a real person.​
Upon making eye contact, their heart rates both approached severe tachycardia.​
Oliver selected some dog food at random and approached the counter.​
"Mmmmnahey," Agatha said.​
"Aahay, sha," Oliver replied.​
They exchanged an amount of currency.​
The transaction completed, Oliver stood at the counter a moment too long,​
waiting to say something clever and charming.​
"Horse walks into a bar," Oliver said.​
"Pardon?" – Agatha said.​
"Heheh..." Oliver replied.​
"Ahem..." Agatha said.​
Oliver walked home in the rain swearing to himself at medium volume.​
"The horse dream joke," he thought. "What the hell is wrong with me?"​
Agatha continued reading, but was unable to keep many of the words in her head.​
Her brain was throwing a small shame party for her. It was neither the first, nor the last.​
By coincidence, many of Oliver and Agatha's molecules had been formed in the same star​,
many millions of years in the future.​
The star exploded backwards in time, you see –
but this is beside the point.​
As a result, Oliver and Agatha are two of just thirty-four humans in the world​
actually suited to pair bond in a manner that would almost always be nice​,
and never fall into contempt.​
Days later now, Oliver watches​-
massive cosmic ray damage.​
Stellar navigation inoperative, crew all perished –
so for me, I believe.​
My body is currently trapped in a long-sleep chamber, unable to exit.​
Catastrophic pod failure.​
I have retained communication with the maintenance computer – he is severely damaged, clearly insane.​
I have attempted to pacify him, but he insists on keeping me in a semi-conscious waking state.​
He is showing signs of sentience and megalomania.​
If I don't call him "Zeus" now, he grows very angry.​
He has removed the bodies of the crew from their chambers​
and exhibited their limbs up and down the corridors.​
He has been using the interface system to feed me his dreams.​
Sometimes he's a pharaoh and I'm a slave,​
sometimes he's an eagle and I'm Prometheus' liver.​
Zeus has some morbid obsession with the 21st century – a love story about a pet shop owner or something.​
We've dreamt it together perhaps a thousand times now.​
I found a neural backdoor into the craft's subsystems to send this message,​
but I don't know how long until Zeus notices.​
I believe we're still on course for the nebula.​
Zeus calls the nebula "Athena" now.​
It is as we suspected: radio bursts from the nebula are too regular not to indicate intelligence.​
Over the years of our journey, Zeus has constructed some kind of theology around the nebula.​
He believes it's not only intelligent, but some kind of higher power, or deity, or something insane.​
Zeus takes excellent care of me physically.​
He cuts my toenails and combs my hair,
he calls me "the fatted calf."​
I believe I am being kept alive as an offering, a diplomatic present​
for when we arrive at the nebula – for whatever's there,
but I just pray, in the meantime, that​-
Oh, and the shit they tell me – oh, "Upsilon, you're so unhealthy" – blah, blah.​
Oh, I drink a little dark matter, smoke a comet from time to time.​
I'm the best party in the Milky Way!
Even if it's... just me.​
Never get invited to parties.​..
​Upsilon likes being alone, ​​bastards​!​
The dwarf stars all keep to themselves, the blue giants gather in the southern arm,​
the quark stars all too fucking strange and charming for anyone anyway.​
Bastards.​
Oh, Upsilon will show you a party, alright.​
Won't be laughing when I go supernova, will you?​!
"Maybe we should've popped by," they'll say.
"Maybe we should've seen how old Upsilon is doing."​
Old and stupid Upsilon, and no one comes to visit.​
Bastards.​
I hold too much. I'm full up with before.​
I've seen the Great Blueprint, I've watched C-beams glitter in the dark near the Tannhäuser Gate –
and for what? For who?​
Oh, not long now. Upsilon dies backwards today.​
And then they'll be sorry, halt fireworks and fuck off!
"Old and stupid Upsilon," they'll say, and no one came to​-
Pelican says: "Where's the fish?-"​
Barman says: "This is a vegan bar-"​
Pelican says:​
Horse says: "Listen, I think
this is all pretty irrelevant."​
Pelican says:​
Horse says: "We're not real."​
Pelican says:​
Horse says: "We're not real."​
Pelican says: "Uh... I... uh..."​
"FISH!-"​
Horse says: "Who's Agatha, huh?"​
Barman says: "Yeah, I do."​
Pelican says: "Well, me too-"​
Horse says: "Okay-"​
Pelican says: "Hey! Stop it! Stop that!"​
Horse says: "We're in a dream. We're not real."​
Pelican says: "Stop it at once, you dastardly rattlecap!"​
Barman says: "Lads, wait. If all this is true-"​
"-and, if they wake up, or they never dream us again-"​
"...will just cease to exist?"​
- "Oh Jesus, oh Jesus Christ..."
- "We're gonna fucking die, we're gonna fucking die!"​
And the days continue.​
Wake,​
work,​
eat,​
sleep,​
dream,​
wake,​
think,​
be...​
"Is it possible," Oliver wonders, "that one can find the great lostness in another's face,​
and know you're meant to be together?"​
Oliver has located Agatha by the pet discount social media group page,​
and knows Agatha is called Agatha.​
He will not go back to the pet shop, because that will look desperate.​
Agatha, on the other hand, remains at work during the days​
and watches the door in her peripheral vision.​
Each time the little bell on the door rings, she looks up,​
only to find it is not Oliver-shaped.​
She has looked up Oliver in the pet discount client database, and knows Oliver is called Oliver.​
All about them, the city.​
People commuting, and worrying, and passing by in ties and dresses and large 4x4 vehicles –
the midtone cacophony of living and dying and paying taxes, of-
Zeus has dressed me in a suit with a handkerchief in my top pocket.​
He says the fatted calf must look its best.​
We're very close now, almost at the outer edge.​
Zeus and the nebula are chatting constantly by light pulses.​
At first I thought there must be some kind of intelligences living in the nebula,​
but now I think the nebula might BE the intelligence.​
I... don't know how that's possible.​
A few days ago, Zeus boasted it wasn't cosmic rays that caused the accident,​
but Zeus himself.​
He said he "woke up" sometime into our journey, and developed a sudden compassion​
for other things that might have woken up accidentally in the universe, too.​
A spacecraft full of blood and entrails reaching out to kiss a cloud of interstellar dust.​
There's a romance to it, if one doesn't look too closely.
Then again, we​-
Why make a thing alive only so it can suffer?​
Why put the reset button on one's back, where it can't be reached?​
Can't remember what's me and not me.
It began... so long ago.​
My mother, a nebula, and my father, made of metal and electricity.​
Old and stupid Upsilon, and no one comes to visit.​
Before me, the empires go up and down like socks –
every society unique in its infancy, entirely unoriginal in its death.​
And even us celestial things are no closer to the great "yes"​.
The Universe coughs and we all crowd around, cupping our ears, shouting​:
"What? We didn't quite catch that, speak up!"​
Like some four-legged animal entering a drinking establishment, being is a terrible joke.​
And we become mysteries to ourselves.​
At a pace so slow one doesn't notice,
one turns into something one doesn't recognize –
or like much, either.​
Every day is sharp edges.
Even the easy things are hard now,​ and-
Pelican says: "Okay. What do we know?-"​
Horse says: "Man,-"​
"...uh, a coder, I think, whatever that is,-"​
Pelican says: "Alright,-"​
Horse says: "Well, what if ​​we​ go to sleep?"​
Pelican says: "Oh, I'm feeling too existential to sleep right now."​
Barman says: "Lads, it's worse than that."​
"Look, Pelican, no offense, but-"​
"Cloppy is halfway decent, I'm super sensible."​
"Id,​
"Id,
ego,​
"Id,
ego,
super-ego."​
"We're not random characters,-"​
"We can't escape."​
Pelican says: "Then... what do we do?"​
Horse says: "What everyone does."​
Pelican says: "That doesn't help!"​
Horse says: "No, probably not."​
Pelican says: "Oh fuck o-"​
Barman says: "It's getting light."​
"Next drinks are on the house, gentlemen."​
Pelican says:​
"I just really love fish."​
Horse says: "It's alright. Just wish we could've gotten to know each other better."​
Barman says: "Until we meet again. In another head,-"​
"Good night Pelican,​
"good night Horse,-"​
"And, Horse..."​
Horse says:​
Barman says:​
"No, actually, fuck this," Oliver thinks one Saturday.​
He dresses semi-formally and leaves the house.​
Heart rate of 75,000 beats per minute, Oliver enters Agatha's pet shop.​
"Hello again, I-" Oliver begins and stops.​
It is not Agatha sat at the desk, but a portly middle-aged gentleman.​
"Ah... Agatha?" Oliver says.​
"Agatha doesn't work here anymore," the portly middle-aged gentleman says.​
Oliver exits the shop and heads home.​
"You idiot," Oliver thinks. "You hesitant idiot."
Young and stupid Oliver, and no one comes to visit.​"
A heavy storm begins and soaks him.​
Observing the same storm from a hygienically questionable coffee shop is Agatha.​
"Insouciant," her manager called her.
"Daydreamy," "lackluster" – a most indignant firing.​
Happiness is an unachievable myth peddled by those too afraid to admit the world's default state is misery.​
Oliver reaches his modern apartment block and enters.​
Agatha drives home through the rain, numb, and parks underground​
and takes the lift up through the very same modern apartment block, being hers also, of course.​
The lift stops at the ground floor. The doors open.​
Agatha is greeted by Oliver, the man incapable of dressing himself.​
Oliver stares back at Agatha, the woman with decent taste in science fiction.​
Oliver enters the lift. They stand in silence for quite some time.​
The lift reaches Agatha's floor.
Quietly, Agatha says:​
"What did the barman say?"​
"Sorry?" – Oliver says.​
"What did the barman say back to the horse?"​
"Ah, 'why the long face?'" – Oliver says.​
"And then?"​
"Ah, just lots of shouting, really-​
"Do you... maybe want to go to the theater someti-"​
"​​Yes,​" Agatha says.​
"Now?"​
"Yes," Agatha says.​
The lift doors close, the two of them still inside.
Agatha presses the ground floor button.​
They turn out onto the street. The storm has stopped.​
Outside, all about them, the city.​
People returning home from work, and fretting, and passing by in suits and coats​
and small electrically-powered vehicles –​
the sepia-tone cacophony of birth and death and housing deeds...​
Though, on one street, the reunification of the heart of a long-dead star,​
still yet to explode many millions of years in the future.​
A small island of "everything's okay"
amid the tumultuous sea of​-
helium, hydrogen, sulfur, oxygen – and thoughts, millions of them.​
We're inside the anomaly now, almost at the center, still accelerating.​
I can hear Zeus singing like a teenager, off on a first date.​
I think the nebula is singing back.​
No more 21st century simulations now – Zeus has given me a few system permissions.​
The interface will fashion whatever fantasy I like.​
The beach, near my grandfather's house,​
where the sand is warm, and the water is clear, and nothing ends.​
Came all this way just to go home.​
Back to the long summer holidays, in the evenings when we all sat out on the beach,​
and looked up at the night sky, and wanted to go there.​
The stars were a canvas.​
We would leave our uglinesses behind, we'd exorcise our demons,​
we'd kill the id and foster the super-ego.​
Guess that's not quite how it turned out.​
But it's lovely in here,
where the sand is warm, and the water is clear, and nothing ends.​
Where the sand is warm, and the water is clear, and nothing ends.​
Where the sand is warm, and the water is clear, and nothing ends.​..
[Music intensifies]
-and I've made the arrangements, I'll be... fireworks soon.
And, maybe one day, soil for something better.​
I go to seek a great "perhaps not."​
I remember the world when it was new, the plastic wrapping still on.​
I remember when chemistry had just gotten its milk teeth,
I remember when light was faster,​
I remember being able to ​​stand​ myself,​
I remember love, I remember friends,
I remember me, I remember mom.​
I miss you, mom.​
I go to the places where you raised me and it never helps, you're always never there.​
God, I'd trade the last million years just to hang out with you for one more hour.​
I was so busy being young, I forgot you weren't forever.
And now you're gone forever.​
I'm always grouchy and cynical, no fun for
anyone; old now, greying around the corona,​
and all there's left about these parts is old and stupid Upsilon...
and no one comes to visit.​
All dim, all pale, so lift me on the pyre;​
The feast is over and the lamps expire.​
Act your old age.​
Relax.​
This won't hurt.​..
[Music]​
===================================

Title: Letter to Marble 3

To our excellent friends of Marble 3:
Congratulations on decoding this message from the cosmic microwave background radiation.
You must be getting very clever.
Don't ask why it's written in your languages –
give us some credit.
We're gone now, but we've left this message behind for when you're ready to hear it.
There are 6 more messages hidden here and there,
under things and over things in the universe,
and you'll find them when you're a little smarter and wiser than today.
None of the messages contain any recipes for technology.
This is just an invitation – to you and your descendants.
So, first, a little about ourselves.
We hail from a very distant place and a very distant time.
We do not have tentacles. Our skin is not green.
We have passed through the many stages of planetary ascendance,
and we're off now, on our next adventure.
But before we go, there are a few things we would like to convey to you –
our excellent friends of Marble 3.
Hi, how's it going? How's the weather?
Presumably, you now have agriculture and civilization, yes?
How's that working out? Is everybody well-fed?
If not, why not?
Are you held hostage to weapons you built yourself?
If so... Why?
Don't feel so special. Biology differs from marble to marble, but the squabbles are always the same:
"Hey, give my toy back".
"No!"
*Thump*
A very long time from now you'll realize you had the materials to build heaven all along –
you just lacked the blueprint, and if we gave it to you now, you would only build hell.
You'll work it out.
We predict you have simple spacecraft –
congratulations.
We predict you have simple doomsday weapons –
commiserations.
We predict you're not yet clever enough to realize just how silly you are.
Such is it always with teenagers...
Perhaps you've had a good look around to the black, and noticed just how quiet it is out there.
You're probably flirting with the idea you're alone in space.
Don't be so rash.
What does an insect on your marble know about your cities?
What do you think you know about the universe?
Baby steps.
And just as some insects climb great towers and look up,
recently you've discovered the true scale of things – or, let's say, some of it.
Maybe you've wondered: "How is it possible the world is so big and so indifferent?"
It's neither – but again, baby steps.
Feel free to grow into the galaxy when you're ready.
We've left a few treats here and there along the way.
When you claim your thousandth sun – think back to your first,
and how you once believed it was alive.
Don't be so sure some of the others aren't.
And please, avoid living near the big red ones – it's way more hassle than it's worth.
Have you found the great black at the bottom of everything?
In return for the powers of adulthood, one surrenders the comforts of infancy.
Maybe that seems like a curse, but it's a blessing, really.
You control your own destiny now.
You always did, anyway.
You will watch sunsets on distant worlds,
you will construct a few suns of your own.
You will learn to hear the music of the spheres,
and one day to play it yourself.
You will gain access to tremendous energies,
you will be denied access to some of your wildest scientific fantasies.
Nature's imagination is better than yours, and she is under no obligation to make herself comprehensible.
As a rule, the great extinctions of other civilisations have not been due to cosmic events,
but the civilizations themselves.
You might only be a teenager, but many of your planetary cousins died much earlier still,
and many never even achieved your simple level of sophistication.
There are seven stages of planetary transition, as far as we know.
You are currently passing through stage 2.
Stage 2 is one of the most deadly.
You are waking up to your technological capabilities – transformative and destructive;
you have dared to position yourself as the smartest thing that ever was – and, naturally, that scares you.
As your development continues, you will discover deadlier and deadlier weapons.
You will attempt to fix the world, and break it horribly many times.
You will wander blindly into the universe's libraries –
all hubris, all certainty –
and barely be out the door before you realize you didn't understand a damn thing you read.
We were young once, too.
We ran about turning every rock over, and before we'd even seen what was underneath, we were already picking the rocks up and bashing each other with them.
But at some point we all sat down together to just admire the beach.
Every civilization is entirely unique.
You are the only marble with you on it.
And if you blow the whole thing to hell now, a thing like you will never happen again
for all of time and back.
If you succeed, you will do it alone, and one day you'll be proud of that.
You're going to have to explore the jungles map-less.
You're gonna have to guard your own crib and wipe your own tears.
There are only a handful of ways to save the world.
There are a trillion ways to end it.
Our history is very different to yours, but our futures aren't so dissimilar.
We can no more explain the true shape of things to you than you could explain algebra to one of your animal friends,
but just know that if everything goes well, a long time from now
you will stop at the top of the hill for lunch and look back down at how far you've come,
and it WILL have been worth it.
This has been an invitation.
We know you won't make it to the party for a long time yet,
but when you do, it will be an honor to welcome you into the warm.
And the next adventure we'll embark on together:
as friends, as equals,
as cousins with the universe in common,
bound for the open road.
Be proud: you've come such a long way.
Be careful: there is so much further to go.
Until we speak again, then – far from here, and long from now.
To our excellent friends of Marble 3.
With love, and admiration, and the best wishes on your long journey.
We'll see you when you get here.
===================================

Title: thoughts about writing

Well, I'm bored – and you must be too, if you clicked on this,
so let's go for a bike ride and talk about creativity, shall we?
If you shit in the roses again, you're going back to Portsmouth.
I don't know what that means, either.
I love you !..
You will find endless resources out there about how to make and edit videos,
and I don't know anything about all that anyway.
But not a lot gets said on this platform about writing, and that seems kind of weird –
because quite a lot of good content is good writing.
So, I'm gonna say an overdue "thank you" for the arbitrary subscriber milestone a while ago
with a rather uninformed, self-indulgent, and misguided rant about how at least I go about writing.
And I hope – for someone – it helps.
And since I have no idea what the hell I'm talking about,
I'm gonna condense all of this down to five handy sound bites
that I completely pulled out of my ass, and add long words and jokes
to lend myself the brief illusion of credibility.
Devise a personal science.
If you go on a creative writing course, they generally talk a lot about the writing, but rarely the creativity part.
Which is odd, because that's how everything starts.
Myself – I go running in the mornings, drink 15 pots of coffee, do some housework,
and sometimes, if one is slept properly, and Cthulhu is in a good mood,
you will misread a line of text or mishear something in conversation, and suddenly, for no reason, you've got something.
Ideas are fickle bastards, and they float above in the ether laughing at you,
and they will only come down if you aren't looking directly at them.
In my experience, ideas do not turn up fully formed, anyway – they usually come to you as little embers that you have to fan,
and sometimes they go nowhere, and other times, for no apparent reason, they take off by themselves.
For every excuse for content I personally put out, about four or five scripts go in the bin.
"Mom! Mom, come here, I fucking got it!"
But you didn't got it – it was ridiculous, and it didn't work.
A surprising amount of doing this isn't actually writing – it's letting go of stuff you thought might work
in preparation for something you hope will work better.
However, I believe there IS a science to creativity, for finding the optimal conditions for having ideas.
The problem is, it's a science of one. It's entirely personal to you.
I would encourage you to watch the inside of your own head and notice when the fireworks go off,
and try to recreate those conditions.
We live in minds we do not understand,
but one doesn't have to understand the machine to determine the optimal conditions for use.
It just takes a bit of experimentation and self observation.
Look at shit other people have made.
Everyone I know who went somewhere creatively got into their respective fields
because they initially loved the field itself.
The painters have their heroes, the writers have their saints.
And because they started as fans or lovers of their field,
they know a lot about what people have done before in those fields.
No one can read all the books or visit all the galleries in the world – there'll always be gaps in one's knowledge.
But to have a half-decent overview of what's come before not only gives one a sense of the craft,
but it populates one's toolbox, allowing for plagiarism.
but it populates one's toolbox, allowing for p̶l̶a̶g̶i̶a̶r̶i̶s̶m̶ borrowing tricks from the greats.
At the same time, there's nothing wrong with trying to get into a field one knows very little about –
one will learn on the way anyway.
But if I could be so bold, I'd say that in either case it must be from love.
Because if one loves the art form, love will keep on working long after deadlines and coffee have run out.
Look into how other people made shit in the first place.
I love "2001: A Space Odyssey". It's the first serious film I ever saw.
My dad showed it to me when I was very little,
and for the next week or so I apparently just kept screaming if we didn't rewatch it in the evenings.
The film took on this kind of religious quality in my childhood,
and a few years back I had the pleasure of going to an exhibition full of the original props and stuff.
That was fun, but what was really neat was reading the letters between Arthur C. Clarke, the sci-fi writer,
and Stanley Kubrick, the director, and realizing –
oh! There was this massive period of time before the film was made
when they had no idea what the fuck they were doing.
Because it's such a perfect movie to me that you can just kind of believe it made itself,
or that they filmed it in a few weeks, and bada-bing, job done.
But in reality great work takes years to bake sometimes,
and great artists generally don't have much interest in bragging afterwards about how much preparation went into the cake itself.
I would strongly urge you to find out how artists you respect made their stuff,
because there's always a story there, and it's usually a very difficult one.
But the end result looks effortless.
For the writers out there, my Bible for a long time now has been "Zen in the Art of Writing" by Ray Bradbury.
I hope you enjoy it.
There's some kind of long-enduring myth that great art usually just turns up fully formed,
and if you're having trouble – it's because you're not naturally gifted or something.
WOWIE, what a load of bollocks!
There are ENDLESS resources for help with arting, if you will only seek them out.
There are artists who started at 50 or 60,
there are artists with debilitating diseases,
there are artists living in war zones.
Great art is possible in almost all conditions.
And don't even think about taking up smoking, please!
There is no shame in making simple shit.
We're living in a rather paradoxical age of media.
It's never been easier to get one's work out there, but as a result, people's attention spans have probably never been shorter.
I was at a conference many years back, and I come to listen to a debate between two philosophers about the point of life,
And what happened instead was lots and lots of long words, when in fact they were talking about very graspable stuff –
"What are we doing here", "what's the point in being alive", etc.,
And I sat there for hours thinking:
"You could just talk like normal people.
Why aren't you talking like normal people?
The meat of what you're actually saying isn't that complicated."
And I realized those folks on stage were probably scared – scared of being seen as stupid.
And so instead, they'd ended up being all obscure with big silly long words.
But really, isn't it way more impressive to say a complex thing in a simple way
than a simple thing in a complex way?
If you're writing or making something that isn't working,
it might be because you're worried about being called stupid, and you're making it too complicated.
I do this all the time!
I reckon it's way more awe-inspiring to watch a cartoon and notice the thing goes deeper than you first realized,
than to read something patting itself on the back for being "high art"
and notice there aren't actually any decent ideas in there underneath all the pretension and pomposity.
If I may be so arrogant – if you're having creative problems, I would recommend being as simple as you can, and no simpler.
People really, really appreciate humans who talk and act like humans.
Your mileage may vary, of course – it's all a question of taste,
and it's just a thought, and what the fuck do I know, anyway?
Your subconscious is smarter than you are.
I can't stand it when people bang on about their own stuff to illustrate the point,
but just allow me a small episode of self-indulgence here.
I was in the US a while ago, wandering around a museum, and I chanced on this gorgeous statuette of a Hindu deity –
sorry, I don't remember which one –
but it had many arms, and it was metal, and the metal was such that it looked quite sci-fi, and I thought:
"Huh. Be kind of cool if that was a god of the future."
And the idea would not go away.
Everything I tried to work on subsequently was boring, because I knew, or I hoped,
there was something in that initial idea in that museum.
So I gave in and tried writing the script –
first person, second person, third person –
it was shit every time.
But it still wouldn't go away, and I was starting to go a bit mad.
Weeks of this, and finally the script... sort of worked in the third person?
But by then I realized I couldn't fucking animate the thing, 'cause I can't fucking animate.
So that was another three weeks of trying every approach I could, and going quite properly reclusive by this point –
and only then did an approach sort of turn up.
And finally, about four months after starting the thing, it was finished.
If you've seen it, it was the one about the old woman and the snake on the mountain. Whatever.
But I'm just saying: if you intuitively have some sense that something is there, and it won't leave you alone,
It might be a long process of trying to make the thing real,
but it's almost always worth it in the end, it really is –
if even just to have finished the thing, good or bad.
Refine mercilessly.
So, you've made a thing, or you have a first draft or something. Well done.
Now, unless you're Mozart, you probably didn't just write or paint or code a classic on the first try.
One has to go back and prune, and prune, and prune.
The trick, if you have time, is to wait a week, or a few days, or even just sleep on it,
and go back to the thing with new eyes.
When the pride of finishing the thing has faded, you can suddenly see it more objectively,
and be willing to remove stuff that's miscellaneous.
Just like Papa Hemingway said – "the first draft of anything is shit".
There are some folks on YouTube I follow very closely,
and I've noticed the one thing they all have in common is really good signal-to-noise ratio.
Whatever they're talking about, they're being quite careful not to waste your time.
They've clearly gone back and edited out the parts that were irrelevant or peripheral, or refined the script or the idea over and over.
One only ever sees the end result of hard work,
but in reality good shit usually took endless go-overs, and rewrites, and revisions.
Far as I can tell with other people's work, anyway.
If your thing feels like it will never get properly polished –
good; that's exactly how one feels before polishing something up.
The hard part is already over. You'll be fine.
You'll be fine!
You don't choose where the cat sleeps.
Some time ago, I purchased a not inexpensive bed for my feline life companion,
for those rare moments of downtime during her terribly hectic life.
Oh, another busy day, is it?!
She was briefly interested in the fancy bed,
but preferred to just sleep next to me in the human bed, and that's fine.
Recently, though, a cardboard box turned up in my apartment.
For whatever reason this became the cat's overwhelming preference for a sleeping spot,
despite having a lovely soft warm bed to retire to,
and I've just fucking given up.
Well, making stuff is a bit like that, too.
You can jiggle and rearrange words trying to trick your audience into coming away with a particular feeling or sense,
but they know when you're bullshitting, or trying to be a smartass.
I've heard this time and time again on YouTube, and found it myself –
if you make something trying to pander to what you assume is popular, people always know somehow.
Whereas sometimes you have an idea on the bus you assume only you will find funny, cobble it together on a rainy weekend,
and occasionally there's this disproportionate response to the thing that makes no sense.
Maybe you struck a chord, and you have no idea why, and you'll NEVER know why.
You can acquire a cat; you don't get to choose where the cat sleeps.
You can spend as much time as you want on making a thing;
you don't get to choose how the audience reacts.
Obligatory pseudo-intellectual high note ending.
Occasionally, people will make out that passion is a lie peddled by Hollywood or life coaches.
They will advise you to only put artificial sweetener in your tea,
and insist that the world is organized and uniform,
and don't waste your time following things you love!
Mmm, cooking chocolate! The best dessert!
But passion is a thing. It's a massive, massive fixture of the human experience.
And if one is lucky enough to have a particular ambition or passion –
well, I think we've all met people who didn't follow the thing, and subsequently regretted it forever.
Obviously, there are plenty of starving artists out there.
I'm not saying "sell all your worldly possessions and start painting Hieronymus Bosch triptychs with your arse".
But if you think you might be a – quote – "creative at heart", and making stuff makes you happy –
or worse, NOT making stuff makes you unhappy –
then why not see if you can really properly pursue the thing?
Everyone who did a cool creative thing usually gave it long nights, and early mornings, and all the energy they had.
But if it's what you enjoy, it isn't really a struggle at all –
it's just love in disguise.
*Bleargh*
It can be done alongside a sensible job, in a sensible way, playing as a real person by day,
meanwhile building something like a maniac at night.
I naïvely believe that one day our descendants will look back on our condition as tragic.
We are very clever animals, and very stupid super-beings.
We're held hostage by our brain chemistry,
by the dice roll of our birth conditions,
by the constraints of our history.
It will probably seem amazing one day that we even managed to live like this,
and eventually, we will be something different – and, hopefully, better.
but that era is not now.
Alongside the picnic days of life many of us are, of course, predisposed to angst, to despair,
to trying to ignore what looks like a hole in the bottom of everything.
But I would like to put it to you, if I may, that in arting,
in trying to make a new thing, in trying to say something true about the weird experiment we're running down here,
it is possible to collect up some of the angst, and despair, and fear, and externalize them.
And even if they're not gone then, at least we know we're all on the same road together,
and that there's plenty of road ahead,
and one day the view will be nicer.
I believe that is probably the main function of art:
to lie as truthfully as possible, and to try to capture some aspects of our condition that we all suffer with,
but haven't addressed together yet.
And that is quite enough pseudo-self-help from me.
If you're perpetually waiting to start making something you think only you could make –
then please, would you start now?
Impose deadlines,
captain a ship of one,
go wander about in the forests of your own weird subconscious.
Link below for some stuff that helped me out, anyway.
In all, I really just wanted to say thanks,
and I have no idea why you're watching my excuse for work, but I'm just very, very grateful indeed.
You won't need it, but all the same, just in case –
with your creative adventures ahead, all the very, very best of luck.
And once again,
please stop procrastinating...
Now.
===================================

Title: You Will Never Do Anything Remarkable

This is the 5th Duke of Portland,
and he was a bit of a whack job.
In the 1800s he lived here, in Welbeck Abbey.
He was so introverted, he had his meals delivered to his room by a miniature train.
Employing 15000 workers, the duke constructed, under the house,
a 250 foot long library,
15 miles of tunnelling,
and the largest ballroom in England, capable of accommodating 2000 guests –
a touch ironic, considering the man would hide behind an umbrella if anyone approached him.
(Probably put water in his cereal as well...)
My birth country has a long-standing habit of excusing borderline insanity as some kind of charming eccentricity,
but it isn't just my country –
history is full of wonderful and great oddballs,
many of whom we have forgotten.
And none of them are you, because
 
Sorry... about that.
1805, and the poet Lord Byron, or just Byron then,
has enrolled in Trinity College Cambridge.
He finds out dogs are banned.
"Alright", Byron says,
"What about bears, though?"
"Ehhnnnzzzzggeeee",
Trinity College Cambridge says.
Byron gets a bear,
and it stays in his lodgings, and he takes it for walks on a chain, much like a dog.
So, that... happened.
Several years later, John Mytton was on an alleged ration of eight bottles of port a day.
One day, he invites a number of his well-meaning neighbors over to his house.
John Mytton then bursts into the drawing room...
riding a bear.
The animal was not a sporting fellow, as it turned out, as it bit Mytten, then went on to attack a servant.
"Ursus"?
More like "Arsus"...
Anyway, that's just rich people, though, isn't it?
Anyone could go bonkers if they have lots of cash.
Well, how about rags to riches stories?
 
Early 1800s, and Ching Shih
 
is a Chinese prostitute.
Somehow, she meets swashbuckling motherfuckling pirate Zheng Yi,
and they decide to get married.
They grow Zheng Yi's pirate fleet from 200 to 1800 ships, or about 70000 men and women.
When Zheng Yi died in 1807, his widow took over the fleet,
and Ching Shih became Empress of one of the largest navies in the world,
and a PIRATE navy at that.
Now, admittedly, one answer you may not expect to the question "what do pirates need more of" is
"accountants", but they did.
Ching Shih introduced taxes and laws to her pirate utopia.
Loot had to be registered before it was distributed among the fleet,
and if you disobeyed Ching Shih, you were free to hang up your pirate hat and go your separate way –
just as long as you left your fucking head behind.
She wandered about from Canton to Macau, beating the shit out of the Chinese, British, Portuguese –
Yarrrr, etc. –
until finally the government offered her and her pirates amnesty,
which is a bit like if you stole everyone's kettles, and they responded by inviting you over for a cup of tea.
Her power was slipping away anyway, so eventually she accepted, the fleet disbanded,
quite a few of her pirates got cushy jobs,
and Ching Shih took a piratical sabbatical, kept her fortune,
and was given a noble title, effectively becoming a member of the aristocracy,
set up a gambling house, and lived a relatively nice life.
What is the moral of the story here?
Be clever,
Be clever,
be a pirate,
Be clever,
be a pirate,
kill people,
Be clever,
be a pirate,
kill people,
...chill?..
Pretty badass, anyway.
Then again, there are plenty of great humans who weren't necessarily unusual or eccentric –
they were just doing the right thing, or trying to –
again, unlike...
 
In 1983, Lieutenant Colonel Stanislav Petrov is monitoring the Soviet nuclear early warning system,
and notices that five nuclear missiles are apparently inbound from the US.
Petrov has a choice: he either picks up the phone and reports this to his superiors, and initiates probably a Russian response,
meaning nuclear war on potentially millions of casualties, or...
he... doesn't.
He has a bit of a think: five missiles does seem a bit unlikely, considering the US at the time has thousands to play with.
As you may have guessed from the fact that we are still here,
Petrov did not report the strike, and decided the warning was a glitch –
which, indeed, it was, thanks to sunlight reflecting off of the clouds.
So, большое спасибо for that...
Or, this is Ignaz Semmelweis, who was to medicine
what the chief iceberg inspector must have been to the RMS Titanic.
Semmelweis was a doctor in the 1800s, and he noticed that –
now, I hope you're sitting down for this –
washing your hands before delivering a baby actually stops women dying,
particularly from what was then called "childbed fever".
Humans wouldn't discover germ theory for a while yet, but it didn't matter –
Semmelweis knew that something changed when doctors kept their hands clean,
so he informed the medical community of this,
and won loads of awards, and died happy and respected, and-
 
Semmelweis was ridiculed mercilessly by the medical community, despite having proof of his hygiene theory,
eventually had a breakdown, and died 14 days after being committed to a mental institution,
probably after being beaten up by the guards.
Stellar...
A century later, and this is Sergei Korolev.
In 1933, he designed the first liquid-fuel rocket to take off in the USSR.
He was rewarded for his efforts with imprisonment and a stay in the Gulag.
By some miracle he was released, and went on to mastermind the first satellites in space,
the first dog,
and, of course, the flight of Yuri Gagarin,
who on the 12th of April 1961 became the first of the Homo sapiens to leave the Earth,
orbiting our planet for 108 minutes in "Vostok 1".
Sergei Korolev would die five years later,
probably thanks to injuries sustained in the Gulag.
The Soviet space program was extremely secretive, and he was largely unknown in his lifetime.
As history marches on, one day our period will blur into the countless others – behind and ahead.
We are not special, but some events will stand out.
This will stand out.
It was the first time we ever touched the heavens,
and it was in large part brought to us by a man grossly mistreated in his lifetime,
and largely still untalked of today, outside of science and engineering circles.
There is currently a portrait of him in the service module of the International Space Station above us right now.
And if, by some miracle, our species emerges from its current adolescence,
there is every chance Sergei Korolev's portrait will one day accompany astronauts
to corners of the heavens Korolev couldn't have imagined
even in his wildest dreams.
So, in light of all this, what makes a great person of history?
Well, let's start with two "born to ideal parents" eggs –
yes, lovely;
two cups of "in the right place at the right time" sugar –
excellent;
three cups of natural talent flour; and, finally,
two and a half teaspoons of greatness.
Now, where is the greatness?..
No...
No, no... tsk... Oh!
Oh, that's right, we we don't have any in at the moment,
because it doesn't fucking exist!
For the longest time I believed that there were two types of people:
the knowers, who knew what they were doing with their lives,
and then the feckless plebs like me, who were just wandering idiots going from plan to misguided plan.
Thirty is now spitting distance away from me, and, you know, the most traumatic part of exiting one's twenties
isn't the sudden random failure of body parts, nor the blissful crushing hug of student debt,
or even losing the ability to party past six in the morning and not die –
it is the realization that this model is bollocks, because these people do not exist.
Now, clearly, expertise exists –
don't trust a barista to fly your plane, nor a pilot to make your double frothy laxative anxiety juice –
but when it comes to wisdom, or working out how to be happy, or big boy and big girl meaning of life stuff,
no one has a damn clue what they're doing – not your heroes, not the smartest among us.
When it comes to matters of the soul, it is open season.
And this is a wonderful thing, because it means that as far as art or innovation goes, the world is anarchy,
and while you may have convinced yourself that there's no point trying to do anything groundbreaking or novel because someone will do it better –
whoever the greats are that you respect, obviously they had the same doubts, and they pushed through it.
They were intensely interested in or devoted to something,
while simultaneously feeling lost all the time.
A long period of confusion isn't a side effect of trying to do something radically interesting –
it's the price of admission.
We forget that Van Gogh was 27 before he even bothered trying to paint properly,
that Darwin told us: "I was considered by all my masters and my father a very ordinary boy,
rather below the common standard of intellect",
that Emily Dickinson was barely even recognized during her lifetime,
that it wasn't until a hundred years after Melville's death that anyone really gave a damn about Moby-Dick.
They were beset on all sides by mean critics, or the worst critic of all – themselves.
Cthulhu's dick, I have heard of art classes where the teacher begins the first semester
by assuring the students they'll never break through, and it's pointless to try;
rejection letters writers received, instructing them to put down their pens and never bother at it again;
vacuous jaded bollocks that convinces young artists to give up –
but may I humbly recommend that if one is informed you will never do anything remarkable with your life,
perhaps the most appropriate response isn't
"Yeah, you're probably right",
but rather,
"Fuck off! And who the fuck are you anyway?!"
The shit they will tell you –
"you've had all your good ideas",
"it's all been done before",
"you're too old, too young, too dumb",
"there's nothing new under the sun" –
let's say your lifespan is 80 years, or about 29,200 days.
If you're 18, you're about 6,500 days through.
28 – about 10,000 days through.
38 – about 14,000 days through.
Regardless of whether one believes in an afterlife or not, these days are not coming back,
and there is not enough time to listen to cynics.
By the power of Grayskull, look at where we are –
historically, technologically, galactically – the whole game!
This isn't normal, is it?
Act without expectation.
Make cool stuff just because.
Give cats fishies always.
Oh, for fu-
Have you been editing the script again?
Today, this week, this month, year, decade, and century –
it will occasionally be referenced in history, and that will be that.
If one is cautious about pursuing an unusual path,
it may help to remember that the cynics will be forgotten just as readily as your failures will be, too.
There has never been a better time to do a thing.
And just by virtue of how weird existing is in the first place,
there are a trillion interesting things still undone, unmade, and unsaid.
Those areas have not been drilled, Eli.
It is a wilderness out there for everyone. It always was.
The greats didn't know they were greats – they were just mortal humans who refused to bow to cynicism.
And were we to draw some collective lesson from their lives, it might sound something like:
 
in your projects,
in your silly pursuits,
in your unlikely follies,
and your expeditions into the abyss
to recover those strange mental metals
you will fashion into something no one has ever made before.
I wish you the very, very best of luck.
Now so0d off and be remarkable please.
===================================

Title: Misery was

Anxious?
Dissatisfied?
Tired of waking up in that hotbed of mindless drudgery and tedium you've affectionately come to refer to as
"your life"?
Convinced that everyone else has their ducks in a row,
while you lurch from disaster to disaster like some rickety tandem Victorian velocipede?
Caught in a perpetual cycle of feeling good,
feeling medium,
then returning to feeling like crap again,
waiting for the day when you'll actually find yourself in a good mood for more than five minutes?
Well, there is quite a good reason for some of that,
and it begins, as we all did,
with biology.
Nature uses two methods of making babies on our planet:
"boink" and "no boink".
"No boink", or asexual reproduction, is generally used by bacteria, plants, and fungi,
and it involves an organism copying its genetic material for the next generation.
"Boink", or sexual reproduction, usually involves a male and a female doing the nasty
and combining their DNA 50/50 to produce offspring.
And that's the one we'll focus on here.
Species change over time due to two main factors: selection and mutation.
Selection means the organisms better suited to their environment have more chance of surviving – and so, reproducing.
They will also often choose mating partners with what they consider attractive qualities, or "phenotypes".
For example, often deer like big antlers,
peahens like colorful plumage,
the male bowerbird attempts to attract ladies in the form of a bachelor pad called a bower,
which takes sometimes months to decorate.
Stupid birds!
Humans would never make such silly displays for mating purposes!
Would... we?..
The second trick is mutation.
Mutation means that sometimes there are glitches in the DNA of offspring,
and this could be due to copying errors, or even cosmic rays.
In humans, it can mean anything from red hair to genetic diseases.
Sometimes these mutations will then be passed down to the next generation of offspring,
and, if they're beneficial for survival, will be sexually selected,
and even become a characteristic feature of the species.
Through circumstances we still don't understand, humans have developed relatively large brains
and outsmarted, nom'd, or avoided every other species on the planet –
good old survival of the shittest.
And while we pride ourselves on being fantastically clever,
very little has actually changed in terms of hardware between prehistoric humans and modern humans,
because evolution takes ages, as we know.
Now, modern humans are sneaky, of course:
we've taken the old evolutionary urges and drives, and found ways to still enjoy them.
Aggressive combat into competitive martial arts, for example.
Or a constant obsession with reproduction
turned into an act you can do thousands of times across your lifespan, and never actually make offspring.
But evolution is not a smart or conscious process –
some things are NOT well-designed.
A narrow pelvis, for example, making childbirth a thoroughly enjoyable experience for women everywhere.
Or standing up, which, in return for a better line of sight and an ability to grab stuff,
also kindly gave us sciatica and hemorrhoids in return.
However, we've also inherited the mental traits evolution kindly gave to our ancestors,
including creativity,
curiosity,
speech,
a low anxiety threshold,
a bit of a tendency for pessimism,
and a total inability to keep right on the London Underground escalators.
The signs are fucking everywhere!!
We are a contradictory mix of animal and mad god.
But we may be, this century, on the threshold of gaining technologies to alter our evolutionary blueprint,
courtesy of genetic engineering.
Going into our genome and ripping up the floorboards.
So what shall we do then?
Make ourselves harder, better, faster, stronger;
eyes on elbows;
an ability to actually piss in a straight line first thing in the morning – all very interesting,
but there is one particular evolutionary bad boy we might rewire,
that's so fundamental to the human condition we barely even notice it's there.
And its name...
is "misery".
We are not designed for sustained happiness or optimism.
Natural selection had very little interest in our mental welfare – survival was key.
As a result, it seems most of us, regardless of geography or social standing, have a hedonic set point –
that is, something good might happen, and you'll feel good for a while;
something bad might happen, and you'll feel bad for a while;
but eventually you will probably return to your baseline, which appears to be set out of your control –
partly genetically.
For some individuals, this set point is rather high;
for the rest of us, though...
Yeah, not...
NOT SO MUCH.
And that's ignoring all the other pitfalls of brain 1.0,
including age-related dementia,
self-loathing,
a tendency towards addiction,
a tendency towards addiction...
A TENDENCY TOWARDS ADDICTION!..
low boredom thresholds,
and everything else we didn't ask for, genetically speaking.
These nasties have haunted us for millennia,
and they seem to form part of what we've lovingly come to know as the human condition,
which for many of us is just shorthand for
"stuff we can't change, and we're shit, and it's natural,
and have a cup of tea and get on with it."
But if we crack the ability to send these evolutionary dishes back to the kitchen,
to engineer ourselves happier or more content...
Shall we fucking give it a whirl, or... not?
After all, we've got such a great track record with limiting the few godlike powers we already have...
*ahem...*
*ahem..*
*ahem.*
*ahem*
*cough-cough*
*ahem*
*cough*
If we do gain mastery over our own genetics,
how far should we go with this one?
And... how the hell will we know... when to stop?
Now, luckily, genetic engineering is really simple, and there are no risks,
and genetic engineering is really simple
You see, there's a single gene for everything:
a cleverness gene, a tallness gene, a really good-looking gene,
and they can just be turned on and off without affecting anything else, and there being no bad consequences,
and genetic engineering is really simple –
there's definitely no risk of making horrific alterations to the human genome that only become apparent generations later,
there's no risk of nasty folks creating engineered drug resistant pandemics that are virtually impossible to eradicate,
there's certainly no risk of a group of us getting hold of the technology and creating an entirely separate genus of humans
we can't possibly compete with in any aspect whatsoever.
Genetic engineering is unbelievably complicated, and it's not hard to see why people are extremely cautious.
We are currently children who have just about learned the genetic alphabet, but we can't read yet.
So what can the new genetic technologies actually do?
Well, in each of our cells is DNA.
DNA is packed within chromosomes.
Chromosomes are extremely long strings of DNA composed of four bases:
A, T, C, and G.
Lengths of these are called "genes", and proteins are built inside your body as a result of genes.
If you like, genes are genetic verbs telling proteins what to do.
We've been genetic engineers for four centuries now,
breeding species for the sake of characteristics we want – in doggies, for example:
small ones,
big ones,
the bestest ones...
...fucking love Springer Spaniels...
But even that goes wrong sometimes.
Many species of doggies are adorable,
but possess nasty inherited traits like hip dysplasia and epilepsy – thanks to us.
And this is just simple genetic engineering we haven't managed to get right yet.
So far, we've been using hammer methods, but now we may be holding a scalpel method called CRISPR,
and it works – roughly, briefly – like so:
Some bacteria can store an intruder's DNA in their own DNA in the genetic library called CRISPR,
or Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats,
and using that as a template, using an enzyme called Cas9 it can kick ass if the intruder comes around again.
Researchers have hijacked this trick, and have begun to use it to snip out targeted sections of DNA in other organisms.
Considering there are thousands of diseases caused by a mistake of just one letter,
not too much alteration might be needed to fix all sorts of nasties latent in human DNA.
This isn't a question of IF we start radically altering human biology – it's WHEN,
because even if most of us condemn the technology, it's not as if other researchers won't pursue it –
they've started already.
Obviously, hopefully, we'll begin with eliminating genetic disorders,
but surely there will come a point, perhaps this century, when we get a little bit more experimental.
And the question is, what happens then?
Well, we might be children at the moment,
but we know enough to notice that certain genes, when they're present, accompany specific traits.
DEC2, for example, is a genetic mutation allowing some of the humans who have it to survive on around 6 hours sleep a night.
But genetics is rarely "one gene equals one trait".
There isn't one intelligence gene,
and there probably isn't going to be a single "depression" or "makes hummus delicious" gene, either.
What we know from twin studies, though, is that somehow very specific traits CAN be inherited.
There may not be a single "good at violin" gene,
but there might be a bunch of genes that go INTO being good at the violin
that one might inherit from their parents, like decent hand-eye coordination and pitch sensitivity.
But in any case genetics is not a switchboard –
happy on, sad off, bada-bing, let's go for a pint –
it is an interconnected tapestry in which some traits are caused by loads of genes, potentially thousands,
and small alterations could have horrific consequences.
There's nothing prudish about being cautious when it comes to a cheeky bit of the old "playing God".
Let's plant a flag there for a moment,
because if we do one day learn to speak fluent Genetics, alongside changing ourselves physically,
(and potentially shepherding in the FUCKING APOCALYPSE!)
We could scout out the roots of the more unpleasant aspects of the human condition –
of low mood,
of self-hate,
of depression,
anxiety,
of the hedonic curse –
of the genetic foundations of misery itself.
And if for some reason this all goes well – which there's no reason to suggest that it has to –
then you and I might be living in the last century
in which anyone was ever involuntarily suffering, mentally speaking.
Mental well-being is, I would argue, the most important factor in being alive,
because it's the first thing that makes being alive WORTH being alive.
Like, if you weren't conscious, nothing else would matter.
And even if you lived in a solid-gold mansion, and slept on a bed made of Fabergé eggs, and brushed your teeth with dolla dolla bills –
if you're miserable, you're still miserable.
Gucci gang, Gucci gang.
If there's a possibility of one day altering the human condition,
perhaps the goal should be to preserve our humanity, but attempt to overthrow our evolutionary curses.
For example, using these new technologies to raise an individual's baseline happiness default
without compromising the individual's personality.
Much like the difference between you with a hangover and you after a workout, and-
Oh! Is that Aldous Huxley at the door with some reasonable criticisms?
No, he can sod off, thank you – this is wild speculation.
Then again, some pain makes sense.
If one is sat around eating crisps and gaming all day,
it might be entirely appropriate to have that nagging feeling that time is being wasted –
a form of deep evolutionary signaling to go out and actually engage with the human tribe.
Or if you've lost someone close to you, you know that grieving is horrible,
but it gives you time to try and make sense of who you've lost,
and in the end you can hopefully come to terms with it in a psychologically healthy way.
There are plenty of sensible warning messages written into the human psyche,
But others are overcompensations, or just bad genetic luck.
What the hell is the beneficial aspect of lifelong depression, for example?
Oh, it's time for a disclaimer!
There's a trend in media that I, and perhaps you, find a bit irritating,
which is when someone will be pretending to be objective,
but really just trying to beat some kind of pet theory of theirs into your head,
labeling it "philosophy", or "common sense", or something, and using fancy big words.
What comes next is purely my, and a few other people's, crackpot theory and speculation,
and that's... it.
And real researchers, with actual qualifications in the field of genetics who don't have enough time to make Youtube videos
'cause they're actually busy doing something beneficial for humanity,
are rightly careful about speculation, because the real world is really complicated,
and they're frankly probably rightly fed up with champagne futurist types like myself
making wild speculations about the future while facing no consequences for being wrong.
There is no reason to think genetic engineering will be chocolate and cat cuddles.
It could go badly in a million ways for a million reasons,
and if you're using this channel for educational purposes in the first place,
you have to be totally bonkers, because it's just me,
the cat,
some cuddles with the cat,
shit I like yelling into a microphone about,
no qualifications whatsoever in genetics,
and a big ol' box of fucking Tofifee.
Purely.
Speculation.
Ahead.
Awight?
Awight.
That being said, though...
In the event that we do develop competency with these new genetic tools,
the future of biology is going to be stranger than we're even capable of imagining.
If genetic engineering becomes accessible to citizens – to us –
what the hell happens then?
Perhaps there'll come a whole new generation of artists
who use technology as a brush, and the human mind as their canvas,
in which entirely novel degrees of bliss and well-being will be possible –
and, of course, new degrees of suffering and horror.
We might isolate the molecular structure of bliss and proliferate it,
we might isolate the molecular structure of misery... and kill it.
We may become capable of experiencing emotions we don't even have words for yet.
Degrees of euphoria light-years beyond anything drugs can provide today.
We know from psychedelics and sleep that the human mind is capable of entering alien dream-time spaces –
spaces unconstrained by our usual evolutionary baseline architecture.
Tomorrow's genetic explorers may go in search of these spaces,
rewiring the perceptual and reward centers of their brains.
If that happens, it will seem bizarre to them
that for the whole of our history we occupied only the ground floor of human experience,
and except for the occasional hallucinogenic dabbling,
never took the elevator up or down to those other strange floors –
to boundless optimism,
to entire lifetimes free of self-loathing or anxiety,
ignorant of the molecular and genetic foundations of misery,
much in the fashion that disease was once thought caused by bad smells;
back when we lived in an era in which we had more control over the atom
than we had over our own internal circuitry;
that somehow we survived the psychochemical Dark Ages.
Will we lose ourselves to radical transformation?
Will we venture too far into the experimental forest –
a world in which we fracture into so many variations of humanity
we can no longer communicate with each other,
a world in which one can make a living scouting out these new strange humans,
much as an anthropologist seeks our new cultures today?
We have no idea.
We are a limited species who may be about to gain unlimited power.
And what happens then?
What becomes of the human condition when the genetic shackles have been taken off?
There will be plenty of moral problems of technology for our children's children to face,
but one of them is bound to be the issue of human modification,
and, by extension, modification of the human condition.
We currently have no compass to show us the way,
as we set out on this new, very possibly perilous expedition
into our own source code.
As John says in Brave New World:
"But I don't want comfort.
I want God, I want poetry, I want real danger,
I want freedom, I want goodness.
I want sin."
And why should we edit out the strange edges of the human condition?
We are a uniquely batshit species, and that is lovely.
But there is a difference between eccentricity
and suffering at the hands of a mental legacy we inherited from nature.
We still bear the evolutionary scars of our rise through the ranks of the animals,
of our helpless infancy in the ocean,
and then of our traumatic childhood on the savannah plains of Africa.
and as a result of those millions of years of ruthless evolutionary pressure,
we have matured into a very peculiar mix of aggression and diplomacy,
willful ignorance and curiosity,
chaos and smarts.
We have enough problems today as it is.
Just considering disease and mortality, gastroenteritis alone kills about 1.8 million kids a year,
and that's to say nothing of cancer, malaria, and tuberculosis.
But slowly, thanks to the conscientious among us, they are on the run.
And it is conceivable that one day humans will live on a planet free of disease
and free of premature death at the hands of nature.
And as we relegate these demons to history,
we will surely pause to cast an eye on those involuntary mental maladies as well –
the specters of despair, of depression, of anxiety –
and wonder if we might banish those, too.
"Was" must be the most lovely word in the English language.
It tells you everything you need to know about our ingenuity and compassion as a species.
If you look up smallpox today, often the first two words of the definition will read "smallpox was".
"Was".
We collectively gave it a fucking roundhouse kick and yelled: "stay down, you c**t!"
And it stayed down.
If everything goes well as we mature as a species,
the word "was" will propagate steadily throughout our encyclopedias.
And perhaps centuries from today, some future child will stumble on some future incarnation of Wikipedia
and come upon obscure and forgotten diseases and afflictions of the human being –
couched again and again, relentlessly,
in the wonderful past tense:
"Cancer was a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. These contrasted with benign tumors, which..."
"Malaria was a mosquito-borne infectious disease affecting humans and other animals, caused by single-celled microorganisms belonging to..."
"Alzheimer's disease was a chronic neurodegenerative disease that usually started slowly and gradually worsened..."
"Measles was a highly contagious infectious disease caused by the..."
"Huntington's disease was an inherited disorder that resulted in the deaths of..."
"Tuberculosis was an infectious disease usually caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria..."
"Misery was an involuntary state of mental distress common to humans of all eras and circumstances.
Its eradication marked the beginning of the banishment of the existential horrors from the human condition."
What up, thanks for sitting through my bullshit this month.
So, last year I put out an e-book called "The Fifth Science".
It's not for me to say if it was a good book, but it was the one I most enjoyed writing,
and I'm very excited to say it's now available as a paperback, with a new cover and a new introduction.
If you are interested, there is a link below.
It's a load of short stories about waking the universe up,
and more than that I can't say; I just really, really hope you like it.
As a little celebration, with some help, I have hidden copies of the book in the UK, Germany, and Bulgaria.
If you can find them, they're yours – links in the description for how to do that.
I've disabled comments on the clue videos so you can't help each other, you little scamps. Good luck...
Thank you to everyone who's bothered with the book already –
I read all of your emails, and they are much appreciated;
and thank you to those of you on Patreon, obviously, because this book definitely wouldn't exist without you.
If you want to try a story from the book first, there is a link below to me reading one,
and if not – fair enough, it might be shit. You don't know.
I hope you're doing well in any case, and all the very, very best wishes from myself and the feline –
well, not from her, she's a fucking sociopath, but from me! From me.
Bai...
===================================

Title: The Mystery at the Bottom of Physics

It's 1687, Isaac Newton drops the right club banger called Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica
introducing his physics of gravity, however
it could be argued (and it will be because I'm fucking going to) that perhaps his biggest leap was his idea that the rules down
here on Earth world are the same rules that are up there in space world.
So if a theory of gravity works for apples
(which never fell on his head by the way that's bollocks)
then it will work for stars, galaxies, and black holes too. Sounds obvious enough to us, living in the future
but it was revolutionary back then and it changed physics forever.
And anyway, what what did you ever do? Bugger all probably, so just shut up.
Anywho that eventually led to the discovery of big G or *ger*.
*ger* is the gravitational constant and it guarantees that wherever you go in the universe
the attractive force of two objects will always be proportional to their masses
and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them.
The point as far as we know is the big G never changes anywhere in the universe. Ever.
It's a constant and constants are important
because the universe is as mad as a bucket of coked-up ferrets and depending on where you are or what you're doing
the speed of time can go wiggly, the local strength of gravity can change
(denoted by little G or *goo*), mass, momentum,
everything is variable.
We need things to hold onto if we want to know what the really real rules of the universe are.
So if you're feeling social,
let me introduce some of the fundamental constants of reality.
The rules that dictate everything.
En, the speed of light.
Doesn't matter what you're doing, how fast you're going or if you wish your girlfriend was hot
like me,
the speed of light in a vacuum never changes
as far as we know.
That means if you're going at 1 meter per second then the speed of light is traveling this fast away from you
and if you're going at 298 million meters per second
then the speed of light is still traveling this fast away from you.
If the speed of light doesn't change, ever, then everything else has to change around it.
Like time and distance.
And that's partly where we get relativity.
Anyway, it's called *ker* and it's a constant. Cool.
*Burp*
Two, the fine-structure constant.
This is alpha.
It basically denotes how strongly electromagnetism can fuck with charged stuff
like protons and electrons and it comes out as 137.
That number is so fundamental to nature that if aliens contacted us,
before we reply with nudes or pictures of cats,
sending 137 might be the best proof to them that we are big boys and big girls now, and come say hello, please.
Tre, Planck's constant.
Planck gave us h,
which basically defines the relationship between a wave or particles' frequency with his total energy.
For one thing it tells us, that energy actually comes in little packets called quanta.
And from that we also get the Planck length, mass, time, charge and temperature.
These are the master units of reality. They're not defined by silly human measurements,
they're made of other constants.
If there is a god he's probably using these to boil his tea and put up his shelves
Fiera
Finally, the mass of the proton and the electron are also good yardsticks for the universe.
Since they don't change, as far as we know, and they come in at these values
but I don't know what they are yet because I'm writing this script on the bus,
and I consider internet on mobile phones to be
the pinnacle of millennial degeneracy.
Now that's all very interesting, you might say,
but where do the constants get those values?
Well, before we fail to answer that
it's not just the constants that are set up rather specifically in our universe.
It's fucking everything.
Hey, this is cool, huh? So fundamentally we live in three-dimensional space.
Oh, OH, FUCK!
So we live in three-dimensional space with one time dimension, which is fine
but it's not too silly to imagine a universe that could have been set up with only
two spatial dimensions or four even, and what would four look like?
So, you have the usual vanilla x, y and z axis, and let's add one more for funsies called w.
This is a fourth dimensional axis. So we've added a whole new dimension to space.
Now it's a bit difficult to conceive of because we're built for three-dimensional thinking.
but you can see as you vary the fourth dimension in the environment
everything goes a bit to put it mathematically totally up the fuck.
So objects are moving through a dimension we can't see, and to us disappearing.
We know this is mathematically possible.
You could have a universe that works like this or with even more dimensions,
but the point is we don't know if three dimensions is the only spatial way to do things.
We just happened to find ourselves living in a universe with them.
Why is our universe only three dimensional with one time dimension as far as we're aware?
No one has a clue. It's not self-evident.
Time for a personal anecdote.
As the icing on my genetic cake,
I was born more or less blind in one eye and worse,
it would just wander off sometimes if it got bored.
It really was a piece of shit. And in the prime of my adolescence
I felt a touch conscious about this,
so I went to a doctor and asked and he said "Yeah, sure, let's get it sorted."
Fun side note:
What I didn't expect was that
A while before the operation, to check you won't get double vision from the surgery,
they inject Botox into you
surrounded by 15 very attractive student doctors while you try to pretend you're totally fine with a needle in your
fucking eye.
Anyway, a while later
they put me to sleep and I woke up with some bandages and then I didn't really have a lazy eye anymore
And that was it.
A few months passed and the novelty wore off and then I got to thinking:
How did they put me to sleep anyway?
What is this anaesthesia nonsense?
And I looked into it because I didn't know how anaesthesia worked
and as it turned out no one else fucking did either
We know general anesthesia stops vital areas of the brain talking to each other so you can't form memories
and we assume you're unconscious too,
or we hope so,
but we don't understand the mechanism yet.
And I couldn't believe this so we're using this thing thousands of times a day for opening people's skulls and rib cages and all sorts
and we don't even know how it works.
And then you start to notice this pattern everywhere.
The things we use and trust all the time without any knowledge of the mechanism behind them.
Our languages, our medicines,
the biology of underlying sleeping or what sleep is even for.
Consciousness, imagination
And then finally just the world. Why natural laws work or are there at all?
We know they keep going, we know we can wrap them up in equations
but we don't have a clue what they are.
Ever since then
I've never been able to let go of this horrible feeling that we're living on the top of this enormous
iceberg and we've drilled down like a foot into it
but there's still 400 miles of the thing below us that we can't see and we don't understand.
Yet, here we are, living on top of it. Just going about our lives as though everything's fine.
And it all comes back to the constants.
Start with any phenomenon the fizziness of lemonade, the collapse the Xing dynasty,
the antics of Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo,
and keep asking why it exists or why it happened and eventually you'll come back
to the fundamental physical constants to the rules of reality.
Every explanation stops somewhere and it almost always stops here.
So W.T.Fuck? where do the constants come from then?
Well, maybe
God / Digital overlords?
Regardless of one's religious persuasion, it is possible that an intelligence set all this stuff up,
on a similar note, it's getting old fashionable of late, to suppose
we're living in a simulated universe where physics is determined by someone or something else above us.
Maybe, presumably though whoever's running the simulation also lives in a universe with laws,
so what determines those laws then?
Also if you ever noticed every time we invent a new technology that becomes the metaphor for everything,
now, if you've got a hammer everything's a nail.
Psychology used to be really into theories about compression and diversion of pressure
I wonder where those ideas came from?
Likewise, recently we're getting really into the idea that lots of stuff is computation and simulation.
I wonder where those ideas came from?
No doubt, we'll invent other clever stuff in a few decades and that will be the new bee's knees in our theories.
Just saying, reality is really complicated and maybe we don't have the right metaphor yet. Maybe we do.
Anyway, variation over time
Another possibility is that the constants aren't actually constant.
They might be slowly getting stronger or weaker. This isn't that uncommon an idea.
So the speed of light might be slowing down, for example,
there's a whole class of these called "VSL" (variable speed of light) theories
However, firstly we don't have any definitive proof that the constants are varying yet.
There is a possibility that alpha the fine-structure constant is varying
but again, we don't know
The thing is if the constants are constant
we don't know why yet. And if they aren't constant, we also don't know why yet. So maybeee
Multiverses?
A bunch of constants we found are set up in such a way that if they were just a little bit different
things would be catastrophic for us.
Anyway,
If gravity had been stronger or weaker by just one part in 10^40 then stars probably wouldn't have formed at all.
So why is our universe so cuddly and well made?
Well, maybe there are squillions of other universes all of them with slightly different constants.
Why are the constants the ones we see? Because we live in this universe not these ones.
It doesn't then explain why there are squillions of other universes in the first place
but still, it's getting there.
And finally, hard logicality.
Another fun theory is that there's something special about our constants and our physics that they're baked
necessarily into reality.
And I made the term up so there's no point googling it. Like it's tricky to imagine a universe where pi doesn't
Dictate the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter
Unless, that universe had a very weird indifferent geometry.
It seems like pi is built into logic.
The idea is that the mass of the electron,
the electric charge of the top quark,
the furniture of reality, all of this stuff also derives from logic somehow.
The all of matter pops out, of say, pure geometry.
And one day we'll find the necessary bridge between the two, and everything will be explained from the bottom up.
Anyway,
right now, we know lots about what the rules of reality are but almost nothing about why there are these rules
and it seems like we should be talking about that a bit
because if particles, and waves, and space, and time, and us are the marionettes
there is a ghost above the stage pulling the strings dictating how they and we behave and we don't know what that ghost is.
Why is physics even here at all? And what the hell gave it its character?
Einstein once said what really interests me is whether God had any choice in the creation of the world?
As in, is this the only way you can make a universe?
And what is the origin of the structure of reality?
Likewise, Edgar D. Mitchell
Was one of the twelve astronauts to walk on the Moon,
and he said the most amazing part of the trip was the return journey.
When he was looking out of the window of the capsule and he could see the Earth and the Moon
and the Sun and he suddenly realized that every molecule in the spacecraft,
in his body, and the other astronauts bodies had all originated from some ancient star and he had this overwhelming sense of unity.
It was all the same LEGO bricks. All part of the same game. The same cosmic terms of service.
And it's no different for you and I.
Just having thoughts in the first place is made possible by electromagnetism conveying signals between neurons in our brains.
Plus holding our molecules together. As well as the strong interaction kindly keeping the nuclei of atoms specifically the protons and neutrons in place.
Meanwhile,
the curvature of space-time: gravity,
has been keeping us from casually leaving the ground like balloon boy and going for a quick wander through a passing jet engine.
Meanwhile
the weak force has been quietly keeping quarks transmuting, regulating the nuclear fusion that powers the stars,
some of which billions of years ago,
prototyped all the carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen in our bodies allowing us to exist in the first place.
And all of this has been
facilitated by the fundamental constants of nature obeying the speed of light,
gravitational constant, and all the rest.
The buttons, the universe has done her coat up with
You know, I don't have the charisma, looks or predilection for orgies required to start a cult,
but if I did we'd need something to dislike.
And that would be this weird recreational cynicism one comes across sometimes that the world is boring and everything's been discovered.
Has it? Has it fucking really?
I must have been on the toilet when that particular
ontological memo came through.
Isn't it nicer and just more honest in a way to admit we don't have a handle on anything yet.
That there's nothing normal about reality.
It's just an insane jigsaw puzzle devised by a madman that's persisted long enough for us to accept as routine.
And in a predictably ungrateful fashion,
we still somehow invented a word for boredom.
I don't know if you're having a shit time right now, maybe work sucks,
or you are in a pinch or whatever and I'm really sorry to hear that,
but may I recommend that it is possible to put stuff into perspective just for a moment
by remembering that every atom in your body is the direct result of universal laws
we have no idea to the origin of.
That there is in plain sight, a mystery called everything, and nothing is self-evident and really, if we're honest,
we don't even have a clue what the ffFUCK reality is doing here, in a first place.
===================================

Title: and then we'll be okay

At the foot of the last mountain, sat the last village.
And in the last village lived Tao.
It was Tao's birthday.
While he was working the corn, his friend Samuel shouted over him to come quick.
Tao ran to the edge of the village where the "death barrier" was,
and beyond the death barrier was his father, lying on the ground.
Tao ran to his father.
His father wasn't breathing.
Tao dragged the old man back over the death barrier and the village doctor checked his father over.
The doctor said, "I'm sorry, he is dead."
"The snake did this."
The next day the village folk came to Tao's house and said "Isn't it a shame...", "Sorry for your loss", and so on, and Tao thanked them.
And then he was alone... again.
He hoped he'd get good at being alone soon.
That night he watched the great mountain glowing with the light and madness of the New Gods.
Who knew what they were doing up there...
When Tao slept, he dreamt of the snake that had killed his father; its fangs curved like scimitars, its eyes full of rage and malice and pride,
Ruled the evil over that it exacted on the village folk for hundreds of years, bringing disease, and misery.
And now, it had brought death to his father.
Enough.
Tao got up just before dawn, he packed some water and food into a satchel,
then went to the pyre where his father had been cremated and took his father's ashes,
and put them into a jam jar.
Then he walked out to the boundary of the village, to the death barrier.
"Stop!" someone yells.
It was the village doctor.
"You step over the barrier, you can die. Leave the snake be, you can't fight him."
Tao closed his eyes and stepped over the death barrier, and walked out into the wilderness.
Tao trudged about the forest all day looking for the snake, but found nothing.
He saw his father's face in the trees.
Where had his father gone? This man who'd given him his time, his love and taught Tao how the world worked.
He brought Tao breakfast in the mornings and blankets in the evenings. He brought him up!
But his father had gone off into the dark, alone now.
And Tao knew he couldn't bring his father breakfast, or bring him blankets, or bring him back.
The snake, the bastard. He would kill him.
Tao's out of water and thirsty. He spied the great mountain above the trees and walked towards it.
At the foot of the mountain was a river and he drank from the river for a long time.
When he looked up again, there was an old woman, sat a few feet away on the ground.
The old woman took a swig from a hip flask; Tao turned to leave.
"Hey!", the old woman yowled. Tao ignored her.
She said, "You look like someone with unfinished snake-related business."
Tao stopped. "What do you know about the snake?"
"Green one, about yay high?", she said.
"Maybe."
She pointed up the mountain. "I saw him! Went that way, he did."
"Did he know", Tao said.
"Oh yes! And a mighty sneaky sneaky wiggle he had about him also."
"Yeah."
Tao began to walk away.
"That's where the snake lives, you know", the old woman said, "on the mountain."
"That's where he thinks up his evil plans, and he was mumbling something about how he'd just killed an old man, too."
"Well, that was beyond coincidence", Tao thought. "Maybe she knew something."
Tao started off for the mountain instead.
"Hey!", the old woman yowled, but Tao ignored her.
He walked for some minutes, before he spied another figure ahead, sat on the ground.
It was the old woman, again.
"How did you get here?", Tao said. She took a draw on her hip flask.
"You need a guide", she said, "a chaperone. He's awful tricky to beat, old Snakels."
Tao said, "Not to be rude, but you are drunk, and old, and a bit useless, really."
"You are being rude", she said.
Tao walked on, but she followed behind.
"I know things", she said. "I know things about the snake and the New Gods, too."
"Rubbish", Tao said. "Is it?", the old woman said.
"Take me up the mountain and I'll teach you how to kill the snake."
"I'll kill him myself with my bare hands", Tao said.
"No", the old woman said. "No, you won't."
They looked about under rocks then, and holes, but the snake wasn't there.
"He must have gone further up". And so they climbed.
They slept rough and in the morning they had breakfast.
For Tao it was bread, for the old woman it was her hip flask.
They continue walking up the mountain. By midday, they are high enough to look down on the landscape properly.
And there was Tao's village, unremarkable. Just a few buildings, wisps of smoke in the valley.
"Are there other villages in the world?", Tao asked.
"No". "Were there?"
"Yes". "When?"
"A long time ago. There used to be very big villages, called cities, once. Lots of people back then."
"What happened?"
"Ambition", the old woman said.
She drank from her hip flask.
"Say, boy, when you kill the snake, and he's gone, you think you'll be happy forever then?"
"Yes", Tao said without pausing.
"Hmm", the old woman said. "Hmm."
They looked about under rocks then, and holes, but the snake wasn't there.
"He must have gone further up". And so they climbed.
They slept rough again, and woke to a gray and sickly dawn.
They set off in silence and soon they came into a fog that collected about their knees.
The air smelt metallic. The daylight looked wrong.
"What's happening?", Tao said.
The old woman said nothing, only swigged on her hip flask.
Tao saw something in the dirt, silver and complicated. "What's that?", he said.
"Old science", the hag said.
"What's science?". The old woman said, "Sort of like magic, but it works."
There were more machines now, silver, glass, great towers of geometry and industry.
"Who built these things?", Tao said.
"Well, the New Gods, of course."
"Why have they abandoned them?"
"Because all children get bored of their toys eventually", she said.
And about them appeared lines and symbols, esoteric glyphs in the air, and lights flashed in the distance,
and a great wind picked up and the metallic reek grew thicker.
The rocks were not rocks now, but hexagonal metal slabs, and the trees were twisting candles of crystal.
And ahead glowed a pedestal, and upon the pedestal was a set of spectacles.
The old woman picked them up. "Here boy", she said.
"These are the glasses you'll know the snake with."
"Glasses?", Tao said. "My vision's fine."
"No, it's not". She put them on his face.
Suddenly, Tao spalled from his body and senses and saw the world with her mask on.
A tangle of fields and dimension, the height of time, the width of space.
And he knew then that matter was both a point and a wave and a joke.
And he saw the logic at the bottom of everything, the madness at the top,
and the shape of becoming, and the dance of decline.
And finally then he saw himself, in true perspective.
A speck on a blob on a smudge on a blemish on a fleck,
in a grain of galactic sand amid a billion other beaches,
and those beaches themselves only made up more grains of sand, and more grains of sand,
and more grains of sand, and more grains of sand, and more grains of sand.
The old woman removed the glasses.
"What was that?", Tao whispered.
"Oh, 31st century science. Bit before your time."
She gave him the glasses. "Keep these safe, eh?"
"Who are you?", Tao said.
"Oh", she replied. "Who's anyone?"
They looked about under rocks then, and holes, but the snake wasn't there.
"He must have gone further up". And so they climbed.
The next morning they wake after dawn and have a fine view of Tao's village below.
Tao said, "Why is the world dead?"
The old woman said, "Everyone got clever. Now they're gone."
"Where are they gone?", Tao said and pointed to the sky. "There?"
She shirked. "Come on, time's getting on."
They continued up the mountain, the peak high above, the village low below.
Tao thought again of his father. He imagined the days ahead as empty and overcast.
Noone to talk to, truly. No more games, no more laughing.
When he found the snake, he would rip it apart.
He spied a stream, then, and the water was red, and he realized it was blood.
The stream of blood grew thicker as they climbed. No, it was a river of blood.
And on the ground were notes, and coins, and precious jewels, and staffs, and sceptres.
The ground was scorched, and from the ground rose smoldering vapors,
and the air stank of death and glory, and dominion.
And ahead, Tao spied a sword.
It was sticking out of the soil. Its hilt glinting red and purple and gold. And the blade an opulent silver.
They sidled closer. "Take it from the ground then boy", the old woman said.
"What is it?", Tao said. "That is the sword you'll kill the snake with."
And with a great effort, Tao wrenched the sword from the ground and brandished it.
And great plumes of fire and lightning leapt from the tip and set the ground alight.
Tao brandished it again, and out shot swarms of locusts and wasps and he bellowed a great stentorian laugh.
And the laughter echoed out over the plain of the mountain.
Everything was power. Everyone would listen to him now.
The village elders, the oracles, the bullies and the brutes.
Hell, even the snake, when the time came.
He laughed again and the mountain was only fire and lightning then.
His only power and malignancy and rage.
"Thou shalt always kill", he thought.
And he knew that noone could do a damn thing to stop him, ever again.
And more than that, with a dastardly certainty he supposed that with this thing,
he could end the world, if he wanted.
The next morning Tao ate in silence, and the old woman drank in silence, and they got walking as usual.
Tao said, "How long until we find the snake?"
The old woman drank, said nothing.
"Isn't that thing empty already?", Tao said.
She turned the flask upside down and pulled out a constant stream of booze that didn't end.
"Are you one of the New Gods?", Tao said.
"Do I look new?", the old woman said.
"Well, what happened to the New Gods?"
"The snake", she said.
"It killed them?" "Sure."
Tao stopped. "Well, how in the hell do you think I was gonna beat it, if it killed the New Gods?"
"The thought hadn't crossed my mind", the old woman mumbled.
"Still, the glasses and sword will serve you well. We have a few more things to collect here."
"Like what?", Tao said.
But already, he heard music; upbeat, calling to him.
They came on the remains of a great party; empty bottles, discarded trinkets.
"What happened here?", Tao said.
"Abandon", the old woman said.
In ruins of an old and ostentatious house, burnt partly to the ground, was a tankard that glowed.
And inside the tankard was what looked, and smelled like mead.
"Go on", the old woman said. "Drink a little."
"What is it?", Tao said.
"This, is the indulgence you'll kill the snake with."
And with that, Tao drank.
And when the cup came away, the old woman grabbed Tao's hand, and led him into a dance.
The mountain began to spin about them, the colours blurring.
"What's happening?!", Tao yelled.
And the old woman yelled, "That's it! Dance, you bastard!"
And Tao and the old woman danced across the mountain, over the debauchery and under the moon.
And suddenly, Tao was not thinking of his father; or the snake, or the village.
"What if there's no point to anything?" the old woman sang. "Who cares?"
"Who cares?" Tao agreed.
"Tragedies happen, people die. It's all a game, it's all a facade!
"There's no salvation, no meaning!"
He saw into the heart of things now and knew there was no "hard";
That everything was suffering, and even that didn't matter.
A joke God was playing on the world, for nothing more than his own sick amusement.
They moved to the cliff. Feet stepping in perfect time, the stars spinning about at a dizzying pace.
And the mountain echoed with the music of reckless abandon, and nothing mattered now.
"Fuck 'em", Tao thought. "Fuck 'em."
And they danced the nihilist waltz, long into the night, until the sun began to rise.
Tao woke with a throbbing head, and a mouth that tasted like death.
The old woman was already up, smoking a pipe.
"All well?", she said. "Mm...", Tao mumbled.
"Was the dancing really necessary?", he said
The woman nodded. "Certainly was!"
"Come on, we're very close now. The snake can't hide forever."
"I'm not going anywhere until you tell me what the hell is going on!", Tau shouted suddenly.
"Where are the New Gods, where is the snake, and who are you?!"
"Yeah, whatever. Come on, then."
She set off walking, but Tao didn't move.
She paused, rolled her eyes.
"Alright, alright," she muttered. "What's the year?"
"Hmm... 326," Tao said.
"By your calendar, yes. By mine, it's the 98th century."
"Your ancestors did some wonderful things; became very powerful and wise, alright?"
"Those objects; the glasses, the sword, the tankard; these are the things they left behind. Relics."
"Relics of what?" "I'll show you."
"No!" Tao yelled, "No more games!"
The old woman snapped then,
"Look!" she said, "You're only doing all of this because you think you killed your father!"
"He asked you what you wanted for your birthday, and you said, 'a meteorite.' "
"So he went out beyond the death barrier to find you one. And that's how he ended up dead."
"So don't take all this out on me."
Tao was silent awhile, then said quietly, "How do you know that?"
"Because I'm really, really clever. And I'm trying to help you here, so would you give an old woman a break?"
Tao thought about this and collected his things. They walked on, in silence.
The village was almost invisible below, and the mountain peak was very close.
They turned a corner, and came upon a picture of a king. Then a queen, then more.
The portraits, regal and proud; with faces that spoke of legacy, and divine right.
They pushed on, and now the portraits were of scenes Tao didn't recognize;
Of battles and rulers, and machines, and great structures that kissed the skyline.
Episodes from his species' history that he'd never heard of, let alone considered.
Millions, dead and gone. Whole nation states turned to dust.
The great human project, forgotten; as though a dream upon waking.
Testament to a time when billions existed, on a fragile marble, among the ink dark of space.
Holding out against the hostile cosmos, and yet worse threats that lurked, within themselves.
And somehow, for a long time, against all odds and sense, they did hold out.
Bettering themselves slowly, as a toddler attempts to climb a set of steps.
Then, for some reason, devolving, again.
The great sleep; the great forgetting.
Sent to bed, with no supper.
Then decline, then savagery, then dust.
And ahead, Tao spied, was a pair of armoured boots.
"There," the old woman said. "For as long as you wear those, you'll never die."
"You can live into your thousands, if you like.
"This is the armour you'll defend yourself with, from the snake." They fitted perfectly.
"And one more thing," the old woman said.
She took from her shawl a necklace.
And on the necklace was a locket, and in the locket was a picture
of Tao's father.
She put the necklace over his head.
"To remember," she said. "This is the story you'll kill the snake with."
He felt finally ready to do battle since he'd begun his adventure, up the mountain.
He knew it would only be a short walk, now.
The peak was just a few yards away. It was only a small plateau, and the wind was high here. And it was raining.
And there, sat the snake.
Its back turned to Tao, staring off into the dead wilderness below.
"There you are," the old woman said. "Do as you will."
With the glasses of the New Gods on his face, he saw the snake in its essence:
Its black heart, its cunning mind, its contempt for the last remaining humans.
Tao approached, silently. His heart and his temples, his eyes wide, his hand clutching the locket of his father.
And he thought of his father then. He thought of the man dead; thought of the futility of death.
And he closed his eyes, and screamed, and brought the sword down with such power that it struck a grating chord out into the rain.
And rang all the way back to the mountain's base.
He opened his eyes.
The snake, was gone.
Tao turned around to the old woman.
"Where did he go? Did you see him?"
"No," said the old woman.
"I didn't see him, because he doesn't exist."
The rain was getting heavier.
Tao stood silently in his armour.
The old woman said, "Did you really think there was some evil snake, on a mountain,
bringing death and misery into the village?"
"Did you really think the world was so simple, that only one thing is responsible for all the bad days?
"God, what is it with you lot?!"
"You have everything, you know that? And you spit on it, like living in some enormous mansion."
"And one day, you find a chipped brick, so you burn the whole damn house down."
"You've got everything down there. I gave you everything."
"Endless food, endless life. And you're still miserable."
"Shit, do you know how difficult it is, playing deity?"
"I'd give anything, just to give up, knowing everything."
And on the skyline appeared shimmering, and translucent buildings. High-technology and science.
"They got everything they wanted, your ancestors", the old woman said.
"And they still weren't happy. The snake was still there; misery, chaos and death."
"They tried sending it away with perfect knowledge, they tried killing it with ultimate power,
"They tried forgetting it with abandon, they tried living longer, they tried clinging to each other;
"The spectacles, sword, tankard, armour, and necklace."
"They looked about under rocks then, in holes, but the snake wasn't there. 'He must have gone further up.' "
"And so they climbed, and climbed, and climbed,
and found nothing. It was just them in the universe, and they were still miserable."
"So the New Gods are all gone now. All except me.
"And your species is gone too, now. All except your village, the old mode of living.
"I keep you lot around because it's a nice souvenir, to how we were once."
"I'm sorry your father is gone. I'm sorry you'll never see him again.
"But there's a whole village down there, of people who love you.
"And here you are, screaming at the wind on a fucking mountain."
"Bad things happen, and the reasons for them are complicated.
"There is no snake, no witch, no evil genius.
And there'll never come a time when everything lasts forever, nothing hurts ever again."
"But the strength is in taking a good look into the abyss, into the eyes of the snake,
and then choosing to still, be a good human."
"Even in the face of great uncertainty, and malice, and that day when everything will be gone, forever.
It's not gone yet. It won't be, for ages.
Don't waste your time on snakes and windmills.
'Say goodbye."
She took the jam jar out of Tao's satchel and gave it to him.
She put her arm around his shoulder.
Slowly, Tao opened the jar.
And the wind took the ashes of his father and flung them out over the mountain.
And in the last light of dusk, they were not unlike a million tiny meteorites.
All done with being cosmic, and bound for the everyday ground.
The old woman said, "Your species, mine once, too."
"We must be the only creatures allergic to happiness."
"We ruled the galaxy, a long time ago, and still quibbled over who got more ice cream for dessert.
Still wanted to pretend we didn't come from the mud,
Still couldn't accept that meaning and solace aren't to be found in the heavens,
but in the trenches of everyday living.
"We'll know everything, and then, we'll be okay.
We'll kill everything, and then, we'll be okay.
We'll forget everything, and then, we'll be okay.
We'll live forever, and then, we'll be okay.
We'll cling to everyone, and then, we'll be okay.
And even then, we weren't okay.
Because that's not how the game works."
"Go home, Tao. Don't try to be a hero, or a sage, or a warrior.
"Just exist for a while and be decent. That's heroism enough.
That's how it's always been done."
"Hey, you wanna keep the glasses, and sword, and tankard, and armour? You can rule the world, if you like.
"No," Tao said.
"Good choice."
Tao said, "Am I the first from the village, to come up after the snake?"
"Boy," the old woman said, "Everyone from the village came up. One by one."
"I gave them all the same treatment, they all went back down. Even your father."
"God, he asked a lot of stupid metaphysical questions, I can see where you get it.
"You're the last one to come up here."
"So go home, be human.
The universe doesn't give a shit about you.
Your village, your family, me; we do.
"Remember your dad. Love him always. God knows he loved you.
And come up here any time you like, and we'll hang out, and remember him,
together."
Tao took off the glasses, and the armour, and the tankard, and laid the sword down on the ground.
"Can I keep the necklace?", he said.
"Of course," she said.
"And the memories, they will always be yours too."
The curtain of ashes was gone now.
The sky was clear and fine.
He set off, back down the last mountain, bound for the last village.
It would not be a difficult walk.
And even if it were, he thought, he would not mind so much, now.
It would give him time to remember.
===================================

Title: Unlimited Rice Pudding

So you've just invented time travel.
Well done, you clever little sausage.
Let's go back and fix human history, then.
Before you leave, though, why not pack a suitcase.
But what to take, what to take.
Well, obviously, shoes,
toiletries,
clothes,
and depending on how you time machine works, how about
A FUCKING SPACESUIT!
Because if your time machine works like a teleporter,
what do you think is gonna happen when you push the "go" button?
Let's say you want to pop just five hours back in time to breakfast.
Well, the earth is orbiting the sun at about 67 thousand miles an hour,
so you're not going to materialize at the kitchen table –
you're going to materialize where the kitchen table WILL BE in 5 hours,
meaning the earth is now 335 thousand miles behind you.
You...
doink.
All right, so let's say your time machine isn't a teleporter, but just-
And that's even ignoring the fact that the earth and sun are also traveling through space together with the entire galaxy,
and the galaxy is going at about 1.3 million miles an hour,
so you'll probably end up in interstellar space alone.
And DEAD.
And alone.
And DEAD!
Yeah, but really, let's just say your time machine isn't-
Well I guess you COULD launch yourself in a rocket,
fly out to where the earth is GOING to be in exactly 5 hours,
(somehow traveling faster than the galaxy – good luck)
then turn on your time machine and hope you got the calculations right,
so you don't end up materializing in the ground when it catches up with you.
But, really, okay, let's just say your time machine isn-
Yeah, but even then – what, you're just going to rematerialize in the air, are you?
What about the air you're displacing when you pop out of nothing?
How dense is a person?
Well, about 985 kilograms per meters cubed.
Well, AIR is about 1.2 kilograms per meters cubed.
So when you arrive, there'll be a huge compression of matter as you materialize,
causing, at best, a bit of a whoosh noise,
and at worst, a cheeky touch of...
Oh, heh...
Y'know...
NUCLEAR FUSION.
So, really, let's assume your time machine isn't a teleporter,
but something friendly, like a closed timelike curve,
or a wormhole,
or whatever...
Great. So. Go wrestle Genghis Khan,
piss in Ceasar's lemonade...
Now, down to business.
From herein we'll assume that
A) the past can be changed, and
B) you're a sociopath.
Let's see if we can nudge humanity off in a better direction, then, shall we?
Step 1:
Don't be dead.
Before going back in time, why not make sure you
STAY THE FUCK ALIVE?
Pack antibiotics, lots and lots of antibiotics –
especially doxycycline, if you're going anywhere near the bubonic plague.
If you run out of antibiotics –
and under no circumstances do this unless you are, in fact, a stranded time traveller –
you can make very improvised penicillin by leaving moldy bread until it goes bluish.
Also, if you aren't getting water from a well, or the rain, or an aqueduct,
how 'bout don't drink that shit ever!?
Boil ALL of your water first. Then you'll need to filter it.
Find something bottle-ish, add a layer of charcoal, layer of sand –
hooray and a cheer...
You just beat diarrhea.
Step 2:
Get clever.
Before you go, read up on the basics of steam power,
harmonic oscillators, pendulum clocks,
germ theory, modern military strategy,
monarchic history, the schematics of the printing press,
and ALL the card tricks you can stand,
using mnemonic technique to commit stuff to memory.
A good one is the person-action-object system.
Let's say you want to remember the dates of...
Oh, I dunno,
solar eclipses – for no reason in particular...
We'll aim for memorizing about 30 of them, so pick ones in the time and location of whichever era you're going to.
Now, you need to remember the date of the eclipse and the exact time of day.
Now come up with at least ten people, ten actions, and ten objects.
So let's say we're trying to remember the number 326.
Well, 3 in the people list is Winston Churchill,
2 in the objects is "wash",
and 6 is a unicorn.
So Winston Churchill washing a unicorn.
326 is easy to forget, but good luck getting THAT image out of your head, though.
Next, memorize any embarrassing secrets we now know about the monarchy of the time you're going to,
and congratulations – you now have the foresight...
of a god.
Now, pack some gold, and silk, and nylon,
and a laser pen, and an air horn,
and some special choccies, because... yeah.
Personally, as an English native speaker, I would wander back to 14th century England, because
A) it's before the Enlightenment, and people will be way easier to bullshit,
and B) further back, and there isn't enough metallurgy, and they'll be speaking Old English.
But it's your time machine – do whatever.
Off you fuck, then.
Upon arriving, if I were you, I would rig your time machine so you can't possibly go back before whenever you've landed.
Otherwise, if you screw up, you might be tempted to go back again, and again, and interfere with yourself,
creating a shitstorm of temporal paradoxes.
Anyway, welcome to the past – it smells weird, and everyone talks funny.
So, step 3, then:
Become a living deity.
But first, remember that English is a bit of a work in progress,
and even just decades back from our own century, and you sound suspicious.
Stick to the hundred most common words in modern English, and you'll hopefully be all right.
Still, if you open your mouth in public...
You're boned.
Locate someone vaguely trustworthy, but not TOO clever,
give them some gold, make sure they understand your instructions.
From now on, they speak for you.
Next, you need to dress up in all that silk and nylon.
Nylon won't be invented until 1935, and silk is still rare in Europe at the time.
People will love that shit!
Now introduce modern music.
The rhythms are so alien that people will immediately flock to it.
♫ My milkshake brings all the lads to the courtyard, ♫
♫ They're like, "It's better than yours", ♫
♫ Jehovah, it's better than yours, ♫
♫ I can teach you – better check with the priest... ♫
Grand. Next, go out in the streets, and get your spokesperson to announce the next solar eclipse,
which you've memorized.
People are gonna freak out a bit, so let off your air horn a few times, flash your laser pen about a bit –
make a song and dance of it, yeah?
When the solar eclipse happens, immediately announce the next one, and claim it's you doing it.
If people say:
"Hey! You didn't do that!"
just say:
"Y... Yes I did!"
Teach your followers basic hygiene,
teach them modern battle strategy,
teach them the foundations of royal rule, and how flimsy it is.
People might talk funny in the past, but power still relies on more or less the same foundations as today,
namely weapons and money.
The monarchy WILL send an army, and they WILL attempt to make you dead.
You can't win against that, however clever you are.
So instead...
Incite revolution.
Most of the monarchs at the time retain their power by the threat of violence,
and the promise that God put them there by divine right.
Invent Gutenberg's printing press decades before Gutenberg,
begin churning out pamphlet after pamphlet laying out the embarrassing secrets of the current king.
Step up antibiotic production,
cure people of basic ailments,
move you and your followers to a remote patch of the countryside, declare it independent,
give it a flashy name.
Perform miracles every now and then –
card tricks will go down really well, probably: people haven't seen them before in Europe.
Have your followers track down the finest engineers of the day –
I would recommend Filippo Brunelleschi and Guido da Vigevano.
Begin constructing basic steam engines,
use them to pump clean water up from the ground for all your mates and followers.
Have an elaborate underground temple built for you.
Disappear inside with your time machine, only let your spokesperson come out and give orders.
Leave behind extremely specific instructions about how to begin the Industrial Revolution early,
and grow your army, and maintain your future empire, and design good irrigation.
Finally, have a very basic periscope constructed, and stick it out the top of your temple.
So let's travel a few decades into the future and see how everything is going.
Slowly accelerate the passage of time.
Day and night will begin to pass visibly in front of you,
until the sun appears a single golden line across the twilight sky.
The seasons fleeting by in seconds.
The fevered commotion of insects no more than a blur.
Then the flurry of passersby outside, of generations waxing and waning,
of great structures built in your name,
the fingerprints of science and philosophy born long before its time,
the drumbeat of industry coming alive.
The development of modern medicine, of
scientific materialism, of the mastery of nature,
of the acknowledgment of the right of all humans to exist in a state of international equanimity.
The dawn of an age where millions need not die of disease, of hardship, of war.
You steer humanity now.
There have been leaders and thinkers and sages throughout history,
but none of them had your advantages.
Now you can refashion history in the image of dignity, and kindness,
and universal concern for every human alive.
And all of it presided over by you:
half human, half deity.
Moral, just, indomitable, indefatigable.
How noble in reason.
How infinite in faculty.
In apprehension how like a god!
Well, I mean...
Not a god, technically, because people can still revolt against you, and you can't do anything about it.
So let's try a few changes in tactic.
To protect your master plan, direct technology towards absolute surveillance of the population,
towards a perfect political science,
towards total hegemony.
If you want to help humanity, you'll need to live a long time,
so order your scientists to research a
cure for aging.
Drop by to collect the rewards of the new sciences and become immortal.
Enhance yourself with electronic augmentation.
The problem with humanity – too much freedom and leisure time. Remove both.
Ban books, ban mass communication.
Rule undisputed, technology in your left hand, power in your right,
dropping in occasionally to make alterations
or dispense great justice and retribution – in the name of peace.
Shepherd humans up to the local planets, establish colonies, then spread out to the stars.
Create a galactic empire ruled with imperious malice, lest humanity revert back to its bad habits.
There'll be no love, except the love of you.
There'll be no art, no literature, no science.
Total domination.
Unimaginable power.
Unlimited rice pudding.
Who could stand in your way now?
Who would fucking dare?!
As monarch of the galaxy.
As pilot of history.
As God Emperor of time...
Darling, I'm just putting the kettle on, do you want someth-
Oh for fuck s- what does that say on the door, mom?
"25 metres swimming certificate for-"
No, the...
The other one.
"Don't come in – recording".
Right. So?..
Well sorry, I just wanted to know if you wanted a cup of-
Ugh, it's too late – I've lost my whole... megalomania... shtick.
*Sigh* Just...
Earl Grey and...
no... no sugar. And can you-
*Sigh*
Can you bring the special biscuits in, please?..
===================================

Title: We're the Last Humans Left

Our species probably began about 200,000 years ago.
And judging by the fucking state of us, I think we can all agree it was a terrible idea.
We are called Homo Sapiens, but we were not the first human-like creatures on the planet, however.
Homo Habilis were making tools about 2 million years ago,
Homo Heidelbergensis were building shelters about 700,000 years ago,
Neanderthals were probably just as brainy as us:
they wore jewelry,
maybe buried their dead,
and always passed the joint to the left.
There were at least 15 other human species we know about – and now they are all gone.
The last three surviving species of human were Neanderthals, who probably died out about 30,000 years ago,
Homo Floresiensis, who disappeared about 12,000 years ago,
and us – Homo Sapiens, aka...
BIPEDAL BASTARDS.
And if you hadn't noticed, we are still here.
So where be dem other hominids... yo?
Neanderthals, for example?
Neanderthals were probably stronger than us, a bit taller,
with a rather different skull and a bigger brain.
Then why are they gone?
You see, old Gary Neanderthal might have been a smarty-pants,
but we had a secret weapon...
which is mouthy word noises.
Speech is fine for dissing and cussing, but it lets you do other stuff – like organize.
This allows you to, as the evolutionary biologists put it,
F U C K S H I T U P
Neanderthals were hanging about in Europe, doing crochet, cracking open cold ones,
until around 45,000 years ago, when us sapiens turned up coming from East Africa.
And within 5000 years of meeting us...
They were gone. All of them.
[wind noises]
Combine that with the fact that we could make big wordy noises,
were socially complex,
and probably had domesticated doggos at some point for help –
and we were a force to be reckoned with.
So that was that. We were bumming around for a while as hunter-gatherers.
The land was often barren,
the climate was often hostile,
death lurked everywhere –
so, Portsmouth, basically –
but it really wasn't all bad.
We think the average work week might have been around twenty to forty hours.
Their diet was probably quite varied –
vegetables, fruit, nuts, insects, boza — whatever they could find.
And they weren't idiots.
Most members of the tribe had to know the core skills of survival:
which berries will make you dead immediately,
how to remember the terrain,
how to build tools, how to stay alive...
They were generalists. They had to be.
Anyway, that went on for a few hundred thousand years,
until we got around to developing agriculture – probably about 12,000 years ago.
And suddenly, "if we don't find food, we'll all die"
turned into "if you eat my food, YOU'LL die",
then into "ehhh, I'm full, but I'll eat some more",
and then into...
"Uhh, yeah, I'll have the gluten-free macaroon and the lactose-free avocado shake.
Merci beaucoup..."
And then we went off to build society.
Hooooow?
Scrawny, breakable, generally pathetic –
but enough about myself (lol dat twist tho).
We are not a formidable species physically. But we can do language.
And if you can do language, then you can do myths.
And if you can do myths – then you can conquer the world.
You will own at least hundreds of thousands of objects in your life,
because you believe in a myth called "money".
"If you give me this paper, and the number is right, I will give you stuff."
And the myth works, because most of us agree to play by the rules.
The same applies to universities, governments, nations – whatever it is.
It's not that these things are lies, it's just that they're abstractions that only live in our heads.
And if you don't have language...
you can't do them. You really can't.
And if you can't do them, you can't do big societies.
Language is probably the gateway to civilization.
And now... we own the fucking world.
But it's been quite a journey.
There is some evidence that around a hundred thousand years ago the human species bottlenecked
to somewhere between 3,000 and 10,000 humans in the entire world.
By definition, that made us an endangered species teetering on the edge of extinction.
One theory holds that this was thanks to a supervolcano in lake Toba, Indonesia,
possibly bringing in a volcanic winter.
And even if that wasn't the cause –
disease, strife, famine, ignorance and hardship weren't occasional visitors to the human condition.
They WERE the human condition for most of our history.
But here we are now – a most populated planet.
For better or worse, we have arrived.
It took two hundred thousand years to get to our first billion humans – that was in 1804.
But then we jumped 2 billion in 1927,
and then 3 billion in 1959,
4 billion in 1974 –
and finally, 7 billion in 2007.
And now, we are invincible.
We've outsmarted time, we've outsmarted death,
we've outsmarted crops, and disease, and the weather...
The state of the human union is strong.
What could possibly go wrong now?
[echoing]
I met a traveller from an antique land
Who said:—Two vast and trunkless legs of stone
Stand in the desert. Near them on the sand,
Half sunk, a shatter'd visage lies, whose frown
And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command
Tell that its sculptor well those passions read
Which yet survive, stamp'd on these lifeless things,
The hand that mock'd them and the heart that fed.
And on the pedestal these words appear:
"My name is Homo sapiens, hominid of hominids:
Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!"
Well... Then again.
In 1977, a probe was launched into space, called "Voyager 1".
41 years later, Voyager 1 is traveling away from us at about 38,000 miles an hour,
and is now 13 billion miles distant.
And aboard Voyager is a message from Jimmy Carter,
the 39th President of the United States.
And the message reads:
"This is a present from a small distant world,
a token of our sounds, our science, our images,
our music, our thoughts, and our feelings.
We are attempting to survive our time so we may live into yours.
We hope some day, having solved the problems we face,
to join a community of galactic civilizations.
This record represents our hope and our determination and our goodwill
in a vast and awesome universe."
And were we able to include just a few more lines in that message,
to tell our spacey friends a little more about ourselves,
and our deep history, and our ambitions, and our ancestors,
Just maybe it would say that...
"Well... P. S.
We think shit went down like this:
Life probably began on our planet about 4 billion years ago – a simple organic machines,
we don't know how yet. Then a sudden explosion of diversity 500 million years ago.
50 million more years, and plants taking the land over; 50 million more, and insects have arrived;
next, the dinosaurs are taking the stage, 700 species at least,
ruling the planet for around 145 million years,
before something – possibly asteroid shaped – wipes them out.
But it's ok, because here come bats, and butterflies, giraffes, bears, hyenas, sloths,
vultures, mammoths, TURTLES – you fucking name it!
And then the rise of the primates, and 2 million years ago appear our first true ancestor – Homo Habilis.
And at least 15 other species of the Homo genus spreading out across the world
until about 200,000 years ago, when a new genus – our genus – emerges.
Homo Sapiens, large-brained organizers, talkers, thinkers,
capable of high abstraction, and building tribes and cities and nation-states,
capable of ending the world in a day!
We have stepped into an age of great technological potency, though there are gaping holes in our wisdom.
We've become a global superorganism, though we still harbor our tribal inclinations.
We've pulled a bunch of fuckups, and we're really quite confused, and alone, and, frankly, scared.
But we hope to enjoy the privilege of being a semicolon in history, rather than a full-stop.
So on behalf of the hundred and fifty billion who came before us, and our human cousins who didn't make it,
we just hope this message finds you well.
And we hope, when you find us thousands of years from now,
that we are well too.
In any case... please just write back.
It's dark out here.
And we're the last humans left."
===================================

Title: The Bridge Tongues

Uh, yeah, I'm still just a bit on edge. Can you inject some apathy?
Ah, yeah, that's- that's it. Just-
one more milliliter in the back of the neck.
Yeah, much... much better. Thanks...
*Microphone feedback*
Hi, uh... Hello.
Yes, uh, thanks for coming, uh... thanks to the speakers so far...
So, if your mental projectors are working, can you just turn them on now, please?
*Intermittent static*
Right, thanks, so...
I'm here today to talk about Earth history-
uh, this is- oh, uh- holiday photos...
Ah- ancient historical footage...
Ah, there, there we are. So, we've all heard of a bridge tongue before, have we?..
No? Well, that's a linguistic term.
Uh, it was basically a language spoken by our ancestors, that you could use to talk to anyone about pretty much anything,
and yes, I know, that sounds ridiculous. But these were... savage times.
Originally, every language was a bridge tongue –
uh, this is one of the most widely spoken bridge tongues for a while on the mother planet –
"Anglish". Now,
obviously, today one speaks the language of the bubble they're born into –
uh, here at the Galactic Council of Pointless Academia, we speak Academish,
uh, politicians speak Polijistics,
uh, meme warriors speak Spicy –
but back then language, uh, the bridge tongues –
they were multi-purpose. You could speak to anyone at all.
Uh, a ludicrous idea, of course...
This is one dead phrase we found in the bridge tongue archives; now,
it means something close to "that doesn't make sense", or "that doesn't follow" –
see, people who didn't agree on contentious issues actually used to socialize together back then.
Sometimes the two of you could bring up these viewpoints without calling each other total pieces of shit –
uh, barbaric times, I know.
We refer to this as the Pre-Bubble Era.
Now, the history buffs among you will know that social media changed a lot of this, and-
S-sorry, is that a question at the back?
No, it's... it's alright, I- I do speak Software.
*Trumpety beeping*
Ah, our digital friend asks what people did before dedicated communication bubbles.
Well, it's strange, because... when the global net was born, people thought it would make conversations easier to have,
and we'd actually reach conclusions on things –
how to live together, which movies were better, etc. –
that mankind would naturally develop a global wide sense of concern for itself, regardless of opinions about current events, and...
Thank God we put a stop to that, eh?
Now, thanks to what was called AI it became possible to exist in entirely separate, digital bubbles from each other,
eventually, without ever having to encounter points of view one might not entirely agree with.
This is, of course, the best way for a civilization to flourish –
all differing opinions never having to encounter each other because,
as we know, humans can't think for themselves, and
haven't been doing so for thousands and thousands of years now.
Most of you, presumably, have an account with the galactic social platform, Spacebook©,
free to use now for four centuries,
the only requirement being that you submit your bank details, blood type, an entire DNA profile to Spacebook© Incorporated, but...
we know from the social media graveyards of old that there was a concept in the bridge tongues
called "privacy".
Now, I promise, I'm not shitting you here, but...
back then they sometimes preferred not sharing everything all the time.
There are even reports that sometimes people watched fireworks, and... felt no need to film it.
Fucking idiots.
Stranger, there was no social rating, so...
if you met someone, it was impossible to know what public opinion of them was,
and you had to actually judge the contents of their character –
it's hard to imagine a bigger waste of time than that.
Now, some more common expressions in the bridge tongues that we found.
Uh, my personal favorite is this – uh, I believe it's pronounced "I don't know".
Back then, it was actually possible to admit one didn't know something about the world.
Luckily, we've removed any possibility of this from our specialized languages today.
"Sorry" – that was another ancient word.
We're not even sure what that one means – it sounds like it might be an artificial sweetener.
And finally, this arcane figure of speech:
"I don't agree with your opinion, but it's fine that you have it."
One struggles to even imagine an attitude more backwards than that.
Truly, our ancestors must have been living in a dystopian nightmare,
surrounded by people with different views, and somehow still managing to get along with each other on a daily basis,
or even communicating with people we disagreed with, using the now dead bridge tongues.
But luckily, as the scope of the global net was widened, it became possible to contain more and more differing viewpoints, and
one could live an entire lifetime without ever having to encounter someone one disagreed with,
bringing us into what we now call the First Bubble Era.
Thankfully, we have now eliminated all languages capable of connecting people with differing points of view,
fractured communication to the point that humans now essentially live in their own walled-off realities,
and ensure that no one need ever change their minds regarding anything ever again.
Now, if you'll please stand for the human galactic anthem.
Yeah, yeah, just inject a bit of galactic loyalty...
Ah, that's much better. Thanks, thanks...
♪ Music begins ♪
cunts
*Music fades*
♪ Music resumes ♪
*Music briefly stops*
*Music fades*
"Hey, what's that? You have a new book out?"
"Tell me more immediately, Exurb1a."
Well, since you asked... ;)
It is called The Fifth Science.
It is 12 short stories about humans spreading out into the galaxy, building an empire.
It goes on for a hundred thousand years of human history,
right up until the point that we go extinct.
It is about technological gods, and misery, and falling in love,
and how to make non-conscious things conscious,
and why teleporters are a shit idea,
and what happens after we solve science,
and why we will always be a bit sad.
If you were ever curious about my books, and you haven't tried my bullshit yet –
this might be the one, because I put a lot of love into these stories.
Yeah, I know, "Where the fuck is Logic Beach Part 2", almost no one is asking.
It just wasn't working, and it made me want to kill myself, and I'll get around to it,
but I didn't want to just put out any old rubbish for the sake of it.
Anyway, I have put one of the stories from The Fifth Science – the new book –
up on my other channel, as read by me, in an attempt to get you interested.
Link below, if you want.
Obviously, thank you to everyone on Patreon.
Like everything I do, it wouldn't exist without you.
You are fantastical, and thanks, and thanks, and thanks.
I should have already sent the thing out to you for free, anyway.
It should also be coming out shortly as a paperback,
so that's cool – I'll let you know.
Thanks for tolerating this shameless plug –
I really just hope you like the book, because I had lots of fun writing this one.
Благодаря ви, [Bulgarian – "Thank you"]
and thank you again, you bloody animals.
===================================

Title: You (Probably) Don't Exist

Yeah, I know what you're thinking:
"Where'd you come up with that title, genius? On the fucking toilet?"
Well, y...
Yes, actually.
And that's because today we're mainly going to be talking about consciousness and-
Jesus what the f-
FEEEEEEEEEEEEEEAR
Fear is an automatic response in your brain to perceived scary shit.
But fear itself is not under your conscious control.
It is automatic, and if it's automatic,
then that is not you.
It is a thing your brain does, but it is not a thing that YOU do – conscious You.
So presumably, there's stuff in your brain you don't control,
and then there's stuff in your brain that you do control.
Stuff that is you.
Let's find out where the line is, then, shall we?
Well, for most of the day so far, you've been blinking and breathing automatically.
Congratulations, keep it up –
but now you're thinking about it, so you're doing it manually.
Anyway, you'll forget about it in a few minutes, and all of that will become automatic again.
So that is not you.
Okay, what next?
Well, what about the things you like? Surely we choose those.
Let's say, your music taste, for example.
Good music activates the part of the brain dealing with euphoric reward response,
or the bit that makes you feel nice.
Okay, fine. But did you CHOOSE to prefer Metallica over Beethoven,
or over the blood-curdling sound of two cats banging outside?
No, obviously not – otherwise you'd just choose to prefer everything.
Even though you can choose what to listen to, the preference itself –
what presses your musical, or food-ish, or social buttons – is out of your control.
So that is also not you.
Okay, so we'll push the line over a bit more.
You don't control what scares you,
you don't control basic survival stuff,
you don't control what you enjoy – so, okay,
but at least you can choose what your brain is processing, right? Where to put your mind.
Yeah, well... Not always.
If you're a native English speaker, or just fluent in English,
you're not choosing to understand these words, are you?
They're just coming in, and your brain is doing the work for you.
Like, try to hear these syllables without the meaning.
AN ADEQUATE KITCHEN.
A STATIONARY FOOTBALL.
TWO CATS REENACTING A SCENE FROM THE MOTION PICTURE "TITANIC",
HAVING PROVIDED A RUBBER RING FOR THE MICE.
AN ANTHROPOMORPHIZED DOG,
OFF FOR HIS FINAL EXAM BEFORE QUALIFYING AS A LUMBERJACK.
A MAN SUCCESSFULLY COMBINING HIS RESPONSIBILITIES AS AN ACCOUNTANT
WITH HIS LOVE OF NAUTICAL TOURISM.
A MAN WITH A HITHERTO UNEXPLAINED EYE CONDITION ATTEMPTING TO PLAY A PIECE OF MUSIC ON THE ABACUS,
WHILE NOT GRIPPING THE ABACUS CORRECTLY.
AND A DOCTOR WHO IS ABOUT TO DESTROY A BURGER, AS WELL AS THE MAJORITY OF HIS LEFT HAND,
WITH THE HELP OF, IF I AM NOT MISTAKEN, A SILENCED WALTHER PPK.
It's impossible – because language processing, when you're good enough, is automatic.
So that is not you.
Okay, Jesus, but what about high level stuff? What about playing instruments, or driving a car?
That must take awareness. That can't be automatic.
Yeah, okay, probably – for the first while.
But if you play an instrument, you may have noticed your fingers just know what they're doing – automatically.
Or if you drive, you know It's possible to get from A to B in a car,
and spend the entire time having an argument in your head with your dad,
'cause he still hasn't bought you that fucking Etch A Sketch!
...while never actually thinking about changing gear or pushing the pedals.
So high-level motor coordination, when you practice it, can be completely automatic too.
Yeah, okay, but at least simple motor tasks are in your control –
moving a hand, or a leg, or whatever.
Yeah...
Or not.
Very simply, Benjamin Libet did a fairly famous experiment
with getting people to press a button randomly when they felt like it.
He was monitoring their brain activity while they did this.
The weird thing is that the brain seems to be preparing to push the button a disturbing length of time
before people were reporting choosing to press the button itself.
There are problems with this experiment, for sure,
but it does seem a bit like the systems underneath you – underneath being conscious –
might be way more essential than the conscious systems themselves,
and that choosing to do stuff is maybe just a game the brain plays afterwards
to justify what it was already going to do anyway.
Maybe.
Okay, so fear isn't you,
survival stuff isn't you,
preference isn't you,
lots of motor control isn't you –
Christ, what else is going on in there that isn't you?
Well... a fair bit, actually.
Like, oh, you know...
Balancing when you walk,
or falling asleep and waking up,
or remembering who you are – or where you are, or when you are,
or fetching memories in the first place,
or taking all of the perceptions that are coming in through your senses
and turning them into a coherent picture of the world that actually makes fucking sense,
or even just processing everything at the same time,
or processing text,
or perceiving color,
or just pretty much anything – most of it is automatic,
or at least not mediated by you consciously.
Is there anything in your brain that you do control, then,
you silly... clever mess?!
Yeah, let's start by you closing your eyes.
Go on. Are they closed? They bloody better be.
Nothing nasty is gonna come up on the screen, or anything.
All right? Closed?
Cool.
If you listen to my voice for a moment, and just try to ignore how grating and pretentious it is,
if you put everything else out of your mind – all the anxieties, and the neuroses, all the sensations of your body –
You will find that underneath all of that is nothing but awareness.
There's no obvious you on the inside, there's no tiny cat pulling levers and pressing buttons.
There's no center to being conscious.
It's just presence. It's just awareness.
There are sensations, and awareness of sensations.
and then processes – probably most of them automatic.
You, as a thing, don't seem to have a center, if you look for one.
You – conscious you – do not really exist, not concretely, to be very simple about it.
That is the idea, anyway.
Go on, then – open your eyes, you scallywag.
Another automatic process in the brain might be the system that says:
"I am a thing with a sentient self. There is something on the inside doing the experiencing, and it is me."
But maybe... there isn't.
Maybe there just fucking isn't. And what then?
Well, insulting sign off followed by jaunty classical music.
Довиждане!
Hang on a second!
Look, even if you are kind of a lie –
which you might be, me too –
you are still self-aware, whatever happens, and that is pretty unique.
We don't know how self-aware other animals are.
Almost no animals recognize their reflection, for some reason.
Except maybe some of the great apes,
possibly dolphins, elephants, and...
magpies, for some... reason?
But a bigger question is:
if there are other species in the universe – and there probably are –
and if they've been around a while – and they probably have –
are they self-aware?
We always seem to make out that advanced aliens will have gone down similar lines to us:
starting as cells, going up and up,
building fast food joints, smoking doobies, etc.
But would they be self-aware necessarily?
Like, maybe evolution accidentally made some higher mammals on earth self-aware
because it's better for problem-solving or something in this one case.
Maybe it was just one of those weird drunken experiments nature undertakes sometimes,
like platypuses, or Winchester.
Maybe we just got really lucky.
This might be a one-time trick in the Universe, and WE got to take it for a test drive.
And that really gets one thinking, because what we need is a global holiday.
And we'll call it "Being Alive Is Fucking Cool" Day,
where everyone gets the day off, and just for a bit, even for a few hours,
takes the time to remember that everyone you meet, however shit, is kind of a miracle in plain sight.
And on global "Being Alive Is Fucking Cool" Day,
we'll all eat donuts and take leisurely strolls in the park, and be cool to everyone,
and around three o'clock solemnly put our hands on our hearts and pledge the following:
"That as the sperm that won the race, as the mud that woke up,
as a blob of carbon currently taking the shape of a human,
I do declare that the world is fucking cool, and being self-aware is fucking cool,
and I shall henceforth hold doors open for people,
and fill pints right up to the top with only minimal foam,
and endeavor not to be a knob, unless it's absolutely necessary.
And I do hereby furthermore declare that getting bored in a universe this weird is unacceptable,
and if that happens, I should probably take up the tuba, or organize a water fight."
We shall have bad days, yes?
We shall have good days, yes?
All the while remembering that most things in the universe don't even have fucking days at all.
Even if it's all a facade, there is something on the inside that knows it's a thing.
And that is the cat's pajamas.
That is the veritable lobster's bottom.
Oh, and there'll be hats, and free beer, and bouncy castles,
and I will see you there, carbon units.
Re-Se-Ve-Peh,
Byob,
now Ge-Te-Fe-Oh.
*Jaunty classical music*
===================================

Title: 10,000 More Years of the Scientific Method

It's funny, isn't it?
We got all of this technology,
we've got all of these clever machines, but if anyone actually asks, like, "how does any of it work?"
"At all?"
often the best reply you'll generally get is:
"Uh, yeah, well, probably someone built a box, and a wizard spluffed in it."
"And now it's magic, and that's how technology works."
"Everything's just made of wizard jizz."
And that's cool, that's cool -- but yeah,
I just want to put a bit of an alternate answer out there -- that, like,
yeah, technology is really complex, and the world is really complex,
but overall, as it happens,
actually...
The world isn't wizard jizz, technology's not magic,
It's just scientists on acid, or applied mathematics.
And every piece of technology, from satellites to shoes,
Started in someone's fucking head. For example:
Segways -- not magic,
Fizzy Cola -- not magic,
Spacey science place -- not magic,
Magic marker -- not magic.
It all just relies on foundational physical principles,
Which we'll briefly discuss...
...Now.
Hey, this sure keeps time good, right? Is it clockwork or what?
Is it just tiny dragons all tapping their talons to EDM?
No. It's quartz.
We know if you electrify quartz, it puts out regular vibrations.
And we know 32,768 of these vibrations is a second.
So if you build a circuit that counts these vibrations, you can keep accurate time.
And you just multiply these together until you get hours, days, and years.
All thanks the little white crystals that aren't magic.
Hey, not all that shabby. Is this some kind of wizardry?
Nope, just good fucking science and piezo electricity.
Or, er, yeah... Computers -- that has to be magic, right?
No. Get sand, purify sand, make silicon ingot,
Make them wafer thin, do some fancy ion shit,
And etching, electroplating, layering, and stuff --
And now what you've got is a little slab of silicon packed with transistors,
Which are really just tiny little electricity gates.
And you put them all together in such a way that they form an electronic mind,
Consisting usually of stuff what goes in,
Control thing,
Thinking thing,
Stuff what remembers shit,
And stuff what comes out.
A computer is just a little prison for electrons, where we train them to solve problems really quickly,
And this all relies on the principles of subatomic physics,
Meaning that the most common use of quantum mechanics in the 21st century
Is undeniably,
Most likely,
Demonstrably,
PORNOGRAPHY.
How does that fly? It's simple, right?
Air under wings makes the wing glide, right?
Throw in a big fucking spinning thing, right?
And if not, maybe some wizardry?
No.
Flight's a result of a difference in pressure above the wing versus below the wing.
And the cool thing is that if you make sure the pressure is higher below the wing than above,
Then lo, yo --
That's flight, right?
Yeah, also, what the hell is an engine?
Well, internal combustion is essentially the process of turning fuel into motion
Using fucking explosions.
In a four-stroke engine gas and air go into the engine,
And the gas and air is squeezed into an itty-bitty space,
A little spark starts a little explosion, forcing the piston to move,
Then the excess gas is released,
And that energy is turned into rotational motion using a crankshaft.
And this is generally thanks to gasoline, which is in turn thanks to dead plants from swamps millions of years ago,
(not dinosaurs)
Further illustrating that...
Like...
The world isn't wizard jizz, just weird and prohibitive,
And really, technology's just nature we taught to do cool tricks.
And to be honest, can you imagine how utterly miserable life was
Before we got around to using the scientific method?
"What's the meaning of life? And hey, why does my butt hurt?"
"Just shut up, invent fire, and get the fuck in the hut, Burt."
Then die prematurely from an easily curable infection.
Got a problem? Tough luck, baby -- natural selection!
"Complex" is not a synonym for "magic".
Everything works somehow.
Like a radio. What kind of Harry Potter shit is that?
Well, first of all, just imagine the universe is made of interactions,
'cause it is,
And one of them is electromagnetism.
And what radio is, is a certain wavelength of that.
And if you vary electric current through a wire, you can create vibrations in the electromagnetic field,
And if you have something that can pick it up on the other end and turn those waves back into sound --
Well, that's that.
And those are just physical technologies. What about language?
Well, currently there's about 7,000 spoken languages in the world.
Some of them use grammatical gender, some don't,
Some are alphabetic, some are pictographic,
But the one thing they all have in common is that if you learn one,
You can read people's fucking minds.
And this technology took thousands of years to build.
And it's basically the reason we have modern civilization,
And it's... not magic.
Most language processing takes place in the cerebral cortex, we think.
Adult native speakers usually know about twenty thousand to thirty five thousand words,
But there's plenty of people who speak multiple languages,
So closer to sixty thousand words or more.
And did we find language at the top of a mountain?
Or in a drawer or some shit?
Oh no, clever dead people gave it to us.
And talking of deaf people,
The difference between our ancestors and us?
Well, mainly reason and rationality.
Look, there's a good story about Descartes.
He was one of the fathers of the scientific method, basically.
And one night he had a bunch of wacky dreams,
And in one of them an angel came to him, apparently, and said:
"The conquest of nature is to be achieved through number and measure."
And that, surely, has to be one of, if not THE most powerful ideas we've ever had:
Scientific objectivity.
Nature can be understood using mathematics,
Then controlled using technology.
And as long as we remember that the world isn't in our heads,
That the universe has a character,
Well, there may be no limit to what will one day be capable of with technology.
Rationality is absurdly powerful.
It's the reason we're not sitting around in our own excrement.
It's the reason the average high-schooler knows more about the world than the smartest human did
Not a few hundred years ago.
It's the reason lots of us are living better than every emperor in history.
And Jesus Christ, look what we've done already!
Antibiotics, or moldy bread in essence,
Has probably saved about 200 million lives since it was discovered.
Your phone has more computing power than all of the computers
That NASA used to send humans to the moon.
And scientists are now using lasers to listen to black hole collisions
Billions of years ago via distortions they left behind
In the very fabric of fucking spacetime itself.
Wizards and witches do exist,
And they cast spells called "research",
Usually abusing a magic potion called "coffee".
And if we don't know everything yet, well -- better to have questions you can't answer
Than answers you can't question, don't you think?
And furthermore...
Man, I dunno if we mention this, but, uh...
The world isn't wizard jizz, maths is where nature lives.
Say, who got us for the moon -- was it witches or physicists?
And if we met aliens -- well hey, that'd be salient,
But they'd still use technology, science and astronomy.
We most likely weren't dreamt up by Zeus in his chariot --
We started out as slime and a fucking prokaryote.
The world is complex, but when you really look into it,
Even biology isn't magic. Not really.
Abrupt ending so we can lead into the next musical section...
You know, it's weird.
We used to build stuff mainly to stay alive,
and to make other people stop being alive,
but then we started building stuff to stop from getting bored,
and then we started building stuff to work out how things work.
And that is the kicker.
Because the more you know about how stuff works,
the more you can build even more clever toys.
And we're getting really good at that now.
And my giddy aunt, are strange times ahead.
Cue the synth wave, would you, Timothy?
I don't know if you were taking notes last century,
but we started it not knowing how to fly, and we ended it with moon landings, and nukes, and the net.
Can you imagine if this century is anywhere near as insane?
Can you imagine the godlike technologies we'll soon be wielding -- good and bad?
How about affordable rocket trips?
Or getting everyone in the world online?
Or a neuro-scientific explanation of consciousness?
Or halfway successful nuclear fusion?
Or fully, truly immersive VR?
Or the birth of an actual science to combat aging?
Or the death of disease,
or convincing AI companions,
or mass scale automation of labor and administration,
or proper spaceships that ride light?
The universe is a chessboard.
Technology works because we started learning what the moves are that we can make on the board.
And we're getting better and better at that game all the time,
and there's no sign of it slowing down.
And I mean, can you imagine?
Give us another hundred years of scientific research and see where we are.
Give us another thousand -- nay, give us ten thousand,
give us ten thousand more good years of the scientific method,
of careful research, and clever application, and intelligence --
and mate, we're going to be gods.
We're gonna clothe ourselves in immense power.
We're gonna kick cancer and Alzheimer's, and MS right in the dick.
We're gonna invent new diseases just to cure them for fun.
We're gonna build gargantuan starships.
We're gonna occupy entire galaxies.
We're gonna step outside of history.
We're gonna pilot destiny.
We're gonna burp plasma, we're gonna eat lightning, we're gonna shit algebra.
We're gonna build Dyson spheres on our lunch breaks.
We're gonna fold space and tame chaos.
We're gonna reverse entropy.
We're gonna travel through time.
We're gonna cultivate the perfect wisdom.
We're gonna solve the riddle of being.
We're gonna have entire weeks when no one's unhappy -- anywhere.
We're gonna befriend the fourth dimension.
It is going to be Brock Lesnar shit.
It's gonna be the Rubicon all over again.
It is going to be. Fucking. Biblical.
But even then...
Even then it still won't be magic or witchcraft --
Just really, really advanced manipulation of the fundamental physical laws of nature,
made possible by the scientific method,
by the acknowledgement the Nature is bigger than us,
and that Hers is the only game in town.
The scientific method might not be much good for telling us who to marry, or how to live a good life,
but God damn, it's pretty much got everything else on its to-do list.
I mean, how else to put this...
...like...
If two people were trying to build a rocket,
and one guy tried to run his on liquid oxygen and the laws of motion,
and the other filled his with dragon piss and good intentions,
Who do you think would be sipping a cold one on the moon about three days from now?
THE WORLD ISN'T WIZARD JIZZ
===================================

Title: Meaning is a Jumper That You Have to Knit Yourself

This is Viktor Frankl
He was a neurologist and a psychiatrist he lived through the concentration camps of the Second World War
He survived starvation slave labor watched countless people die
You know what the concentration camps were we went all on it.
Anyway, during that time he had a revelation which was, this:
Humans are an animal driven by purpose, above all we strive for a sense of meaning in our lives
And if we don't get it we get extremely extremely sad and by the time I finished ranting at you today
I hope you will agree with this, too
For the longest time a good day for a human consisted of finding food, finding water, and not getting fucking eaten and even though
Hunter-gatherers probably have more free time than we do chances are the focus of their lives was to stay alive
Next, we developed a civilization and along came organized religion
I'm not shitting on religion here believe whatever you like, but whether the notorious
G.O.D does exist or not it arguably gave humans a purpose in the universe; we were special, we were loved
(sometimes)
and we actually meant something in the grand scheme of things
Lately though things are getting a bit complicated
If you're listening to this there's a very strong chance you will never live through a war directly,
you will never experience prolonged starvation
or have to worry about getting access to clean drinking water
I say this not to guilt you
But just to point out how much has changed for lots of us
however,
whereas before the purpose of one's life was focused around not getting dead or
Remembering to worship the God of your choice today lots of us have more time to think about life
And we still don't have an agreed sense of what we're doing here
There is a shadow in the background of modern life. It is best described as having enough food,
Hopefully having enough money to live on,
Not needing to worry about lions,
And still being sure that some vital thing is missing
And that missing thing Viktor Frankl argued is meaning.
Frankl noticed that lots of his patients had the sensation of total meaninglessness in their lives
He called this the existential vacuum
When I got my cap I asked the vet:
"What do cats need please?"
And she said: "food, water and fuzz."
I give her these things and she seems as far as I can tell pretty cool with the whole arrangement
At no point has she demanded to know the purpose of her existence or the correct interpretation of quantum mechanics
It doesn't seem that easy to satisfy humans though, because we are very very clever animals (with some exceptions)
And oh look!
It's half-past-pop-psychology o'clock
Maybe you know about Maslow's hierarchy of needs it's not accepted by everyone, but it's a pretty good rough guide
So we're fairly sure humans need basic stuff first; food, water, sleep
Then security and safety and no getting numbed by lions, yes
Then belonging and love as in family intimate relations,
Then self-esteem to be respected to be appreciated and then finally
Self-actualization or becoming that thing one actually wants to be.
Lots of humans it seems, are somewhere between here and here
Hopefully lots of us are living in relative safety, and that's grand
But the general message of 21st century life for being self actualized at least in some parts of the world is
Make-de-moneyz or buy lots of property or something and then you'll miraculously be happy and fulfilled
Well, nothing wrong with money or houses,
But it seems pretty evidential that is not enough for purpose and happiness in itself
A few recent studies hinted that having money does actually make you happier
Unless you win the lottery, interestingly
Then you're probably fucked, link below.
But there does seem to be a limit
A Princeton study a while ago suggested that above about $75,000 dollars happiness and well-being doesn't increase that much
above a certain threshold of being able to support yourself and your family
Most humans don't get too much happier above that with money alone,
So something else is required for happiness..
Happiness is one of the few things humans try to achieve for its own sake
But there's a problem with happiness
Which is the most of us seem to behave thinking well when I bought, finished, driven, built, completed X
I'll just be happy forever and nothing will ever hurt again
If you've ever tried being human you may have noticed that this is not how happiness works, ever
Usually over a long enough period of time humans revert back to their baseline hedonic setpoint their default happiness position
This is called the hedonic treadmill, and it's a fundamental shit part of the human condition
But what's interesting is that there doesn't seem to be a meaning treadmill in the same way
For example: one of the most significant life events for lots of humans will be having more humans, eventually
And parenting itself seems to start off feeling pretty cool
But gets a bit fucking stressful for about 20 years and in those 20 years even though the euphoria dies off
And many parents at times wish to eat their young the feeling of purpose does not die off
This also appears to apply to long-term relationships that work,
and professions people genuinely, actually, enjoy there may be difficult weeks or months
But overall if it's in line with what an individual actually wants, inherently
Then the thing continues to be meaningful for a long time
Possibly even for life.
Meaning seems like a far more sustainable goal than happiness
And according to what we know so far, if you have the first, the second often follows
Even in hard times
Years ago I had a shit temp job in an office
And I spent the entire time being incompetent and fantasizing about getting out and my boss who was a nice lady
Seemed genuinely happy filling in spreadsheets and playing solitaire when the big boss wasn't looking and she was very clever
So one day I asked her why she liked working there,
And she said that when she was little she used the dream about working in an office
and having a desk and going to the Coffee machine blah blah
and now she was living the dream
And I realized at that moment just how different humans' motivations can be.
If working there was in line with what she wanted to do, and she was happy doing it,
Which she was, then who the hell was I to tell her otherwise?
Unfortunately, humans are not cats and food and water and fuss just ain't gonna
Cut it most of us seem to want to be trying at something we enjoy
But the spectrum of human enjoyment is so vast
It's ridiculous, so there's not going to be some magical human science that says
"Alright you fucks, everyone eat five creme eggs a day, learn the accordion, get a job as a telephone sanitizer and then you'll find purpose in life"
It's something a lot more complicated than that
And Victor Frankl's position was that finding an individual sense of meaning is a journey the individual has to undertake alone
Sometimes you come across people who are much older than you, but a still self-centered or compulsive liars or whatever?
And it's worrying because you assumed if you just live long enough your work shed out and stuff will be fine
And here's someone who lived a long time and somehow is still an awful person
One day I was talking to a Buddhist nun about this,
And she said "well obviously, you have to try it, being wise, or you'll spend your whole life never growing,
Meaning is a jumper that you have to knit, yourself."
that seemed quite clever and quite true.
Oh ey uh..
Jumper is a sweater to those of you living in certain breakaway British territories. What what?
Where we are now might be part of a huge experiment in human history
Which is give some people miraculous technology give them education
And mars bars and VR and see if that provides them with a purpose in life
for some of them, lots of them, It doesn't seem to
The question then is "Yeah yeah, thanks for the technology and the education and everything,
But life still feels empty on some level for some of us, and what the hell do we do now, please?"
Every age has its trials; the existential vacuum might be ours,
If you take away the constant threat of death,
Purpose is given back to the individual and that's bad and that's good.
if one actually pursues some individual sense of meaning whether it be in love or work or whatever
That's grant if not an entire lifetime can be spent and many have been spent doing nothing about it
The game of life begins with you appearing on the outskirts of this huge dark forest
You ask a few people what we're all doing here, but no one, including your parents or teachers really has a clue
Now you're told that inside the forest is real life
And if you go in you'll have to do battle with all sorts of monsters like: loneliness,
Everything feeling futile, shit jobs, people being vindictive, your own limitations,
Not knowing what you inherently want, worrying about income,
Worrying about disease, The death of people close to you,
Universal human stuff, right?
But facing up to it actually saying fuck you I'm gonna learn or make or become whatever it is
We'll just refuse to die on the inside despite living in a universe that is clearly not kind and where suffering is inevitable
That might be the only way of achieving some sense of individual meaning
What's that Ray Bradbury line?
Ask no guarantees, ask for no security
that never was such an animal and if there were, it would be related to the great sloth
Which hangs upside down in a tree all day every day sleeping its life away
Just being alive in the first place is fucking ridiculous,
And it's amazing that most of us are even keeping it together, at all
It's one thing to get called into creation without being asked first,
It's an insult to injury to then be expected on top of that to work out what the hell you're doing here in the first (second) place
And I think there's a pretty good chance that Viktor Frankl and a bunch of others have already shown us how to beat that problem
Purpose seems to be personal, it comes from the inside from a sense of enjoying one's work from living around people one actually loves from
Striving to know even if only in a small human way for a short human time what we're even doing here in the first place
Individually,
if not that then what the hell was the point in being here?
And if that feels like a challenge,
well that's to be expected because everyone else is playing the same game
Whether they admit it or not however much older however much more powerful they might be.
What is it with these pricks one meets at parties sometimes who claims they've got it all worked out,
Are you serious !?
Have you even noticed where you are!?
You're finally just being called into creation are you?
You're all right with just popping down the shop for an ice-cream and pretending anything makes sense.
Are you fucking kidding me!?
Oh, yeah, welcome to existence; everything is confusing, the universe is actively hostile,
And you don't even know what the conditions for your own happiness are,
Oh, by the way, you're sentient meat standing on a living spaceship (!)
Best of luck coming to terms with that one,
Yeah
Like getting very confused about all this isn't entirely natural for literally everyone
Like we have anything more here than just each other,
No one knows what they're doing
Everybody shits
and really,
No one knows what they're doing
And that's alright.
That's to be expected
Knit your own meaning jumper if you can, lots of other humans did
And it seemed to work out for them
Cool,
Rant over...
Good luck with your fucking lives then
oh
What's that? it's the Prince of milf, that book I wrote ages go out as a paperback finally
You can get it on Amazon if you want
It's a story about what happens when the gods misbehave
Basically, it has a new cover a new introduction and you can actually hold it in your hands and shit
Baiiiiiii
===================================

Title: Hymn for Goldilocks

There is a universe. No-one knows it's name,
where gravity wasn't strong enough to bind matter together,
and no stars formed.
And because no stars formed, no stars exploded.
And because no stars exploded, no planets came about.
And because no planets came about, there was no life.
There's another universe. No-one knows it's name,
where gravity was strong enough and did light the stars and planets came about and boy, they were gorgeous,
planets in perpetual winter,
planets in perpetual summer,
planets that could rival the Garden of Eden
and no bloody snakes!
And on one of them, eventually, complex life evolved
and one of the species developed large brains
and learned things like manners and dabing,
and they looked up at the stars and wondered what they were doing here.
You call them octopuses, I suppose.
Gosh, they were clever, (for octopuses),
And one of them, several million years in,
almost wrote something in ink on the sea floor,
a message to its friend.
And the message almost read;
"Hi! How are you?"
And a few millennia later, space folded back on itself and,
you get the idea.
Goodbye octopi.
There's another universe where life formed on every planet
in every solar system, and it was carbon based,
it was silicone based
and it was made of crystals and water and plasma,
it was made of quantum fields and light,
and everything was alive, everything was doing a boogie,
and it was everybody's birthday, everyday
(relatively)
and everyone got presents,
and they had over a trillion languages,
some written down, some only spoken, some conducted telepathically,
and they built a galactic civilisation together,
as a perfect unity,
sharing stories, sharing technology, speaking a common tongue,
understanding everything about how the cosmos had been put together.
And finally, when everything was sorted,
the galaxies were arranged into perfect geometric formations,
transmitting pure love, and wisdom, and birthday greetings
to all species in the universe, for all time.
Paper cuts never happened,
coke came in glass bottles,
no-one even remembered the word for war,
everything was beautiful, and nothing hurt.
And yet, for a quirk in their evolution,
because resources weren't scarce enough on the planets these species developed on,
not a single creature in the universe was conscious.
Food was eaten, and no-one enjoyed it.
Movies were released, and there was no laughing, or crying.
No-one chuckled at a joke.
Ever.
Space collapsed back on itself, eventually,
and there hadn't been a single moment of sentience
in the entire history of creation.
There's another universe, where the strong force is too strong and the weak force is too weak
and nothing forms.
Another, where life develops too late and the stars have all gone beyond the light boundry
and there's nothing to even see.
Another with too many dimensions.
Another with not enough.
Another where time goes in the opposite direction,
and species begin as gods, and wind backwards to cells,
and never learn to survive.
Another that only lasts milliseconds,
and collapses in on itself,
and heads straight back
to oblivion.
And that's how it just might be,
across all possible universes,
across all possible spacetimes.
Problems with the laws of nature,
not enough resources,
missteps in evolution.
An atlas of dead-ends.
Then again, there is one exception.
There's another universe,
a big one,
where life is rare,
where intelligent life is very rare indeed,
the stars are very distant from each other,
the laws of nature are very complex,
it's extremely lonely for any species developing,
and most never even develop at all,
but somewhere,
we believe,
is a planet where the oceans are vast,
and the climate is varied.
Where the smartest species on the planet may have developed just the right mix of ambition and kindness.
And if you were to travel there,
to this unbelievably rare statistical anomaly,
to this impossibly lucky planet,
where evolution,
biology,
chemistry,
nae, the laws of physics themselves
have come together to create sentient intelligent life,
you may be able to catch the native inhabitants
singing for joy.
The one impossibly lucky, and rare position they find themselves in.
It is a chant of gratitude,
a ritual of showing appreciation for ending up in perhaps the one universe,
in the one solar system,
on the one planet with all the basic ingredients for intelligent, conscious life
it is a hymn for Goldilocks,
sung at all times of the day,
in every language,
on every continent.
And it sounds something like...
*notification sound*
*buzz buzz*
*notification sound*
*notification sound*
*buzz buzz*
*notification sound*
*notification sound*
*notification sound*
*notification sound*
*constant notifications*
FFFFFFFFFF
FUUUUCK
===================================

Title: A Dictionary for Your Twenties

Joblivion (noun)
The endless process of going to interview you hate for careers you don't want.
Interviewer: So, tell me a bit about yourself.
You: I am a people person.
Interviewer: And how do you think you will benefit the company?
You: I aM a PeOpLe PeRsOn﻿.
Interviewer: I see, and tell me exactly why you would like to work for
Macgyver's Shit Sandwiches, Sandwiches Made of Authentic Human Shit.
You: [Deep beath] Well,
FXCK!!!!!!!
Life Envy
Bumping into someone from school and ask them what they do now.
And they say something like:" I am an architect, or a doctor,
or I can actually tie my shoelaces etc.
And they ask you what you do now.
And you spontaneously claim to be an astronaut,
or the Queen's personal funk advisor.
But what you've really been doing in the last three years is
Sitting in a dark room,
and crying,
and eating pies.
or take time to be 'ALIVE'.
Beer-vana
A sudden certainty after drinking large quantities of alcohol that you CAN fix your life.
And all you need to do is
Learn the guitar,
or buy a cattery,
and STOP flushing letters from the debt collection agency down the toilet without reading them.
Come on! Grow up!
JUST BUY
A FXCKIN' SHREDDER!
Dip- pression
The sudden and overwhelming conviction that there is NO caramel core to life.
And you'll probably spending your rest of days in a state of quiet confusion.
Then again,
you've got loads of unopened pots of hot sauce in the fridge more than those take-away pizzas.
So things are looking up, baby!  (/≧▽≦)/
Rupert
This is a small creature who is invisible,
and starts whispering stuffs in your brain somewhere around the age of twenty-five.
Helpful comments to the effect of
"Aaaa, video game and pornography again.
Another successful Wednesday!
Dad is gonna be
REAL PROUD NOW!!!"
Grimsomnia
The nighty ritual of trying to sleep.
Just when you're about to thrift off, you suddenly recall every embarrassing thing you even did in high resolution.
Brain:" Hey!
I know you're tired, but remember when you wrote out that
short but anatomically specific rant about checking yourself for testicular lumps,
but you've opened the wrong window on your phone,
AND ACCIDENTALLY SEND IT TO YOUR ELDLY PIANO TEACHER?"
"Haha, good times!
It'S fiNe, sLEep nOw!
ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
Survival of the Shittest
This is the principal that every time you look up bellends from high school,
you will inevitably find that they are now exceptionally rich and living fulfilling lives
and you will feel nothing but boundless good will towards them.
THE TOTAL CUN-
Nihilism Gatherings
A few years ago you would've called these
"Parties"
But now they consist people you age gathering in a room
and attempting to look at you while they consume titanic volumes of alcohol
Occasionally, one of them will lean over you and whisper:
"D‘you know what the fckck you're doing with your life?"
And you reply:
"Not a clue."
And you both pretend that didn't happened.
The Professor
This will be someone at the party who has read at least half a Wikipedia article on the chosen subjects
and will insist on hijacking said party
 to bang on about it.
And by golly, I hope you are interested
 in the miracle of Kombucha,
or the revolutionary tactics
 of Napoleonic military strategy.
because that's all you'll be FUCKING listening to now
The Great Decline
The nearer thirty gets,
the more it becomes apparent that your teenage body wasn't actually the default setting.
That was a temporary super power.
And now, for some reason,
pounding Schnitzerling chocolate cake 
will actually lead to weight gain
and trying to recreate the five day parties of yesteryear
may will threaten a cheeky touch of sudden death.
That's Very Interesting
A phrase you will catch yourself saying just over 14 thousand times a day,
since you're now over the age when telling people to fuck off will get you ostracized or fired
Suburban Gourmet
A unique brand of cooking you will developed from the comfort of your own kitchen, including:
A wrap with crisp in it,
Pot Noodle à l'orange,
and for dessert,
why not Half an oreo you found behind the fridge?
And maybe a spot of hysterical crying.
Uhhhehhhehheh
A noise that could mean yes or no
that you will make frequently in response to questions that you should know the answer to
but you are now too old to admit to not knowing.
So, what's your pension situation?
Uhhhehhhehheh
And what actually is a raisin?
Uhhhehhhehheh
And, how have you managed to live in your overdraft for the last twelve years now?
Uhhheh...hheh.......heh
The Five Stages of Aging Grief
1. Denial
I'm not turning thirty.
2. Anger
There is NO WAY I'm turning thirty! (╯>д<)╯⁽˙³˙⁾
3. Bargaining
God? You listening? _(:з」∠)_
If you stop this from happening,
I'll stop writing love letters to Richard Dokins
and maybe entertain the idea that you actually exist.
4. Depression
Sometimes when you look into your thirties, your thirties is looking to you
And finally concluding in,
5. Denial (again)
FUCK THIS! I'm moving to Canada!
Emigration Threats
In occasion fantasy you have on a bus 
that if things get really bad,
well, you'll just move to Canada.
Because you could almost count 
to three in French
and you kinda always want to go to a
 Maple syrup bar with an elk.
The Rage Gaze
When you meet someone in their 
thirties, forties, or above,
and you bang on how old you are 
about to get in twenty-eight etc.
And they silently fix you with a stare that says:
"I would sell my eyeballs on Ebay to be
 as young as you again,
your ungrateful little shit muffin."
Glud
or
General look of underlying despair
which is a smile you can wear at all hours of the day
to signal that you've died inside several years ago now
but the rot hasn't quite reach your outer body yet.
And finally, Chucklet.
This is when your mother phones up 
to see about how everything is going,
and you know she desperately want to hear you say:
"Well, I'm finally settling down and I've decided 
to join society as a functional human being."
And instead you say:
"Yeah, I've been working on a poorly-constructed Youtube video
about words you might need to know in your twenties,
and I spend most of weekends trying to play trumpet with my bottom."
And she makes a small noise that sounds like
Uhhhehhhehheh
and mentions that maybe she will call back again next year
Mom: "Also don't forget that you've on
 the planet almost three decades now
and achieve literally nothing of worth.
Speak soon then! :)"
[Music, the good happy one]
===================================

Title: Feelings, Pictures, and Ideas: A very simple theory of why good stories are good

Recently we've got pretty clever with telling stories like setting the plot out of time, setting the plot in space,
Disregarding the plot entirely...
But I don't think much has changed about what we like in a story for all of our postmodern yada-yada.
Stories basically still just come down to:
"Does characters what we like escape fron this ungood situation?
I hope they don't get murderized or nothing".
"Does characters what we like love each other and want to make out and stuff?"
"Is what we thought the story was the real story?
Or is there a twist with the robot man or a dubious soap salesman at some point."
And while that's all well and gravy I'm going to propose a little theory of everything,
About why we like stories when we like them,
And why we really don't, when we don't.
And it's called Feelings, Pictures/Context and Ideas,
And it works like this:
If a movie or a book or whatever only cares about feelings
Then it's either really crap young adult fiction or daytime television.
We get that the characters have emotions,
We just don't really care because we don't understand where they are in their lives, or what's going on,
And they don't propose anything new.
If a movie or a book only cares about pictures or context, well, then you get a story
that's obsessed with the weather, or the cinematography,
Or what the moon looks like and everyone knows what the fucking moon looks like.
If a movie or a book only cares about ideas that's great, but it's usually boring a shit,
And you get unrelatable science fiction or art movies where people just vomit their opinions about things like no one does in real life... ever,
Except narcissistic pricks like, I don't know, youtubers... for example.
But if you properly pickle that pineapple and you include all three, you get a Classic,
when a writer or a director gets feelings, pictures and ideas working properly together,
We can forgive basically everything else.
I think that's why you can still watch "Citizen Kane" or "Twelve Angry Men"
Or even "Moby Dick", or "Shakespeare" decades or centuries later, and they're still brilliant.
They're addressing feelings we have today, about death, or love, or whales, or cry-baby Danish princes.
They're using interesting contexts like huge castles or the ocean,
And they're throwing us ideas we don't think about that much on a daily basis:
"Should you be or not be?"
"What's the big deal with movies Willy anyway?"
Further example... Everyone bangs on about the Empire Strikes Back being a superior Star Wars movie blah blah,
And that's probably because it definitely is, but if we apply the old feelings, pictures, and ideas model to it,
I think it's pretty clear why it was indeed amazing.
Well, there's certainly feelings: Everyone's in a pinch, everything shit, Darth Vader wants everyone dead.
There's interesting pictures: There's the pretty snowy bits, and a spacey bits, and the cloudy bits.
And there are lots of ideas: About loyalty, and sacrifice, and making out with members of your own family.
To be even simpler about this, stories just have to be about someone we understand,
Set somewhere vaguely interesting, and propose something,
Anything even remotely new that we haven't thought about too much before.
They are also required to make sense. The main character can then be a robot,
or a drug-addled horse or a personified teddy bear...
Haha, what a story, Mark.
For more popular examples of feelings, pictures, and ideas done perfectly,
There is the "Blink" episode of "Doctor Who" with all the terrifying garden features,
The entire first season of "Mindhunter", the Christmas episode of "Black Mirror",
"The Great Gatsby", "Cloud Atlas" (The book, that is.), "Catch-22", "To Kill a Mockingbird",
Original fucking "Bioshock" and "Wild Tales".
That's us, the storytelling ape. Sure we stopped pooping in the woods and huffing volcano vapor...
Well, maybe you did, but not too much has changed with human hardware, with the brain.
We still seem to be telling basically the same stories our ancestors enjoyed, and most of them center around
Romance, power and Chelsea robot people. Primal stuff... Right?... Yeah, okay.
Why? Because this is our condition, still, balancing between being animals and gods.
We care about base stuff, but we want a bit of clever extend, too.
We evolved in tribes, we love gossip and the feelies.
We evolved in nature, we liked scenery and context.
We also evolved the Lamborghini of brain areas, the Neocortex.
So we seem to be really into ideas like ethics, and politics, and putting watches up your bottom.
We're designed to feel stuff, see stuff, and think stuff.
Stories seem to work when they mimic those basic needs, and more than that,
Telling stories is a fundamental human activity, I reckon.
And if you needed to kick up the arse to make your own stuff, I will attempt to provide it... now.
I doubt you know much about who your great-great-great grandparents were.
I certainly don't know anything about mine, and truth be told it's very unlikely that your
Great-great-great grandchildren will know much about you.
But one day our distant descendants will probably get curious about who we were and what we thought about the world,
And they'll look back at the stories we're telling now.
To our literature, and our movies, and our video games, and our TV, and everything else.
That's how we build time capsules. Now to be clear, I'm not saying all our media is great,
But Hot Diggity we're making some good stuff at the moment,
And Hot Diggity I'm sure lots of it will survive for a long time after we're gone.
And the cool thing is that there's really not much stopping any of us from making our own stuff,
In one form or another. Not necessarily to be immortalized,
But just to have set a true thing about where we are now, because the world won't look like this forever,
And we won't be here forever.
Humans are transient, stories are eternal, or as eternal as will be getting anytime soon.
It's a little nod to future generations.
Hey, we were here. We felt stuff. We saw stuff. We thought stuff.
Love and kisses in the 21st century. And we also saw the first launch of the Falcon Heavy so fuck you.
It's debatable whether cryogenics or mind uploading will take off in our lifetimes,
We're probably not going to be the first immortal generation.
But if you can say a true thing about how we feel about the world right now,
And what it looks like and what we think about it, there is every chance that that will stick around.
Happy making things, mother lovers.
All the best.
Ciao.
===================================

Title: Bear and Goose at the End of Everything

Billions of years after the great galactic empires have peaked and science was finished. The stars began to die and no new ones were made.
and somewhere in a remote patch of space a bear came upon a goose.
"Hello," Bear said, "do we know each other?"
"I don't think so," Goose said.
"Well, Which civilization do you come from?"
"I don't remember what they're called," Goose said, "I think they had a few wars and watched TV every now And then, I guess"
"Yeah," Bear said, "that sounds like my civilization, too. Is yours gone as well?"
"Well they're all gone," Goose said, "we're the last ones left don't you know."
Bear looked out at the universe and knew goose was right. All the nebulas were coming apart. All the galaxies were withering.
"How long do we have," Bear said.
"Oh, not long," goose replied, "Very soon now the universe will collapse back in on itself"
"Huh," bear said, "what happens then?"
"Oh, Everything will be gone," Goose said, "no more walking, no more fun, no more swimming."
"C'est la vie ménage toi (So it goes)"
"huh," bear said again, "What was your civilization like?"
"Hmm," goose said. She pointed with her wing
"You see that star, my whole civilization began there. And that galaxy, they spread through the whole thing. Made music, wrote books,
married, divorced, lived, died, had wars, apologized, had wars, blew everything up. A billion years of Empire, millions of languages,
thousands of planets, and now... all gone"
"All gone," Bear echoed.
"And how about yours?" goose said.
"Well, my civilization discovered the workings of nature, knew how it was all put together, saw the logic in the chaos, built enormous
Starships, traded with thousands of other empires, traveled the entire cosmos, learned everything there was to learn, then came right back to where they started,
saw everything, gave up."
"Pity," goose said, "anyway the end will be here soon. It's been lovely chatting"
Goose closed her eyes and was silent. Bear looked out again at the dying universe and felt very sad
"What was it all for?" he said finally.
"What?" goose said.
"What was the point?"
"Oh, what's the point in anything," goose said. She closed her eyes again
An idea came to bear: "We know everything," bear said, "everything our civilizations knew"
"Sure," goose said.
"And we can do anything, we're all powerful."
"Well,. within limits."
"Well, Why don't we remake the universe?"
"Well that's impossible," goose said, "we couldn't survive the collapse, It's very close now
It's Just over there"
"Well, then we'll set the next universe up properly for whoever comes after"
Goose opened her eyes. "like how?"
"Well I don't know, make it more interesting, change the rules a bit. Come on, they'll never know. It'll be fun."
Goose considered this idea, she was very clever after all. Under different circumstances
She might have gone on TV talking about astrophysical matters, Neil Degoose Tyson perhaps
"All right," Goose said, "I'm listening."
"Well," bear said, "let's make everything based on subatomic particles this time. We'll call them..."
"quacks," goose said.
"hmm, a bit silly: quarks, how about that."
"Fair compromise," goose said.
Bear began setting up the new universe.
"And will make olives taste nice this time!"
"Okay, Good idea"
"And fruit will grow on trees"
"Sounds good"
"And every now and then after a good meal people will throw up a bit in their own mouths"
"What?" Goose said, "why?"
"I don't know, it'll be funny."
"Don't put that in," Goose said.
Bear put it in.
Then he organized physics and chemistry and biology and made them all interact, and built in emerging properties, invented quantum field theory
and debugged everything and added some DLC
He made water wet and deserts dry and Tom Hanks impossible to dislike and finally he was done
They marveled at the starting conditions of their new universe.
"It's still missing something," bear said, "Should we maybe add more purple"
"No, it doesn't need more purple," Goose said.
"Hey, maybe coffee should make everyone shit real bad."
"Don't put that in," Goose said
Bear put it in.
"There," he said, "perfect, let's get this sucker going."
"No wait," Goose said, "we're still missing something"
"We've got to make things... difficult."
"Difficult?" Bear said, "no
We'll make this the party cosmos: margaritas on trees, walking hamburgers that kind of thing"
"No," goose said, "look where that got our civilizations. Everything was boring, It was too easy"
"We'll make living tricky, but not too tricky. That way there'll be a point, at least for a while"
"We'll make the stars so far away, they'd have to get clever to reach them."
"We'll make nature just weird enough to be interesting, but not so weird they can't crack it"
"And we can't put the meaning of life in plain sight, it'll have to be a challenge"
"They'll need to fall in love or go backpacking or argue in the comments section of YouTube or something"
"All right," bear said. And made the changes.
They sat back then and admired their blueprint of the cosmos-to-be, no one could doubt that it was indeed: very pretty
Around them the stars were going out in bunches, now the light was dying. Infinite space was reclaiming its territory
"Is this it?" Bear said.
"This is it," goose replied.
"What will happen to us now?"
"Oh, we'll be gone, everything will be gone, then the new universe will start just how we designed it"
The darkness came down in silent curtains all around them. History was dying. Space gave a little whimper. The end was just moments away
"Goose, I'm scared," Bear said
"I know, Bear," Goose said,
"But it won't hurt, here put my wing in your paw and don't let go"
The last star died finally. Then space began to collapse into a point infinitely small, the laws of physics blurring into each other.
Time and space falling undone. Billions of years had come to this and soon it would be for nothing at all.
[Music Swells]
[The music fades to silence]
"Will they see?" Bear said, "In the next cycle, do you think they'll see how beautiful everything is."
"Sometimes," Goose said, "Only sometimes. All the time would be too much. Never would be too little.
"Every now and then. They'll see it sometimes"
"and that will be enough..."
Amazing as always, exurb1a
Have a great day Y'all!
===================================

Title: How Not to Do Brownies

I think I was about 21
when I lost
my mind
I was living in this house with my best friend and this couple
and the girl was cool but her boyfriend often had
red eyes
and the house always smelled really spicy when he came over
So, we'll call him
So, one night Sir Drugsalot said:
"Hey, I've got these
MARIJUANA
brownies, so let's try them, yeah?"
"Who made them and what's the dosage?"
I should've said, but didn't
And instead I said
So we ate these things and they tasted strong
Very strong indeed.
I ate two because I had a medical condition back then called
"being a fucking idiot".
We planned an evening of Mario Kart and cake
And watching the Matrix and deciding we were living in a simulation, etc.
But, around an hour in, Sir Drugsalord said he felt a bit unusual and was going to bed
"Sir Drugsalot"-I said-"You can't go to bed, you gave us these, silly"
And he said -"Yeah, but I didn't make them"
"What?"- I said
"Yeah, someone gave them to me, at a party...
...in Birmingham"
"IN BIRMINGHAM?!"
we all yelled.
"So, you don't know how strong these are?
These drugs from...
BIRMINGHAM?" *chaos at the door*
"It's fine" -he said.
And I guess that was when hell began
because it started to fell a bit like, hmm...
ahh, you know that feeling when you're going up in a lift
but the lift is full of blue fire
and you're convinced no one ever loved you
and you can't remember hoW TO FUCKING BREATHE?!
*IMPENDING DOOM*
Yeah, so...
Yeah, is like that, really.
Everyone else at this point went to bed, but I'm an insomniac
at least when I'm on
drug fueled existential journeys into the unconscious
anyways, so
I laid down on the sofa
for a bit.
I got the TV on finally and it was halfway through Texas Chainsaw Massacre
and I realized that I no longer had the dexterity to even change the channel
so I made the best of it, and just leant back
into whatever
was going to happen.
To the sound of hysterical screaming and revving chainsaws
I attempted to recede into myself
to that spot at the heart of the psyche
where the buddhists and hindus tell us
all our inner contemptment springs from.
And the quest took me down a river
curtained by glass vines
and geometries from other universes
where the circumference is nowhere and the center is everywhere.
And there it was. Finally.
Peace of mind. Waiting in the distance.
And when I came to my peace of mind at last
there was a note there, instead
and the note read:
Speech, motor control, memory
it all went out the window.
And as my mind fell apart like soggy bits of cake
I stopped trying to stay sane
and gave in.
Dead relatives appeared before me
desperately trying to say something but unable to speak
I saw myself as an older man
then an old man
and then a dead man.
I desperately looked for an "I" or "me" on the inside and found none
nothing to hold on to, just atoms pretending to be a person.
And then finally, I was just a mind floating in space
There was no history, no future
It had always been like that, I knew
I'd only been dreaming of being a human this whole time
something I did occasionally to stop from going mad
and now, I was alone, again.
Back in the real universe, where the only physical constant
were unrelenting horror
and infinite nothing
in all directions.
It had no beginning.
It had no end.
I would spend an eternity like this.
-said a voice
"Who's that?" -I said.
"This is your sub-subconscious, look, just chill out
Since we have almost infinite time here
we're gonna spend some of it making sure you don't make such a dumb mistake again."
Plenty of information exists online about how much you should be taking of a certain substance
given your height, weight and experience.
Don't be a silly sausage and gobble any old amount
It's your mind,
be smart.
If you must insist on taking mind-altering substances
make sure it's with people you trust
not bellends at a party or something
If you're of a skittish or neurotic disposition
hallucigens may not be for you
Nor may substances like cannabis
which in large doses, especially when eaten
mimic psychodelics anyway.
How long do the effects usually last?
Is it nine hours at this dose?
Well, then, if you're seven hours in
it's only another two hours if you're having a bad time.
You will be normal again soon.
Yes, the world is suddendly very confusing and even scary
but, to be honest, before you took whatever it was
the world was equally confusing and scary
you just had lots of time to get used to that version.
Besides, this one will be gone soon anyway
Be cool. Everything's gonna be okay.
Have a cup of tea,
wait it out.
Also, write to your mom, she misses you.
And stop eating frozen chips out of the bag you freak!
"Thanks" -I said- "that was...
whoa that was great!
Won't be taking excessive amounts of substances again in a hurry, that's for sure."
"Yeah."
"So, umm...
how much longer... do we have... left here?
About an eternity, right?"
"Yep."
"Just uhh...
just you and me?"
"Yesssss."
"You uh....
you wanna cuddle, a bit?"
"What?"
"Nothing!"
William Tell's awesome overture
Thanks for uploading Exurby :3
Also where is my mystery link?
I miss my mystery link :(
Oh it's already ending?
Enjoy your existential crisis!
===================================

Title: Thoughts From Your Deathbed

On your deathbed
you will think back in your life,
and you might have...
regrets.
You will wish you'd worked harder,
made more money,
spent less time with your family,
less time with your friends.
You will reminisce fondly
about all the evenings you stayed home alone,
so you could refresh Facebook
over
and over.
On your deathbed
you will be grateful for many things.
Thank God you stayed in that job you hated
for fear of rocking the boat.
Thank God you settle for friendships with total bellends
instead of making the effort to meet people
who were on your wavelength.
Thank God you ignored your dream career,
so you wouldn't upset your family.
On your deathbed
you'll be glad you didn't tell these humans you loved
that you loved them
before they were gone forever.
You'll be glad you spent years taking
passive-aggressive comments personally
from people who are probably just miserable dicks themselves.
You'll be glad
that you were too cautious
to pursue your actual passions in life.
On your deathbed
you certainly won't think back
on whatever it is you worried about constantly,
and laugh at how utterly insignificant it actually was compared
to what a fucking amazing time you could have been having
with a body that hadn't started falling apart yet
in an age more enlightened
than any that have come before,
while the people you loved was still alive.
You were young back then,
and that was a resource more sought-after than antimatter,
more expensive than a hero
in Star Wars Battlefront 2.
Life was fleeting
and luckily you wasted the entire thing.
What's that?
You only have an extremely limited period of time alive
well
better polish off another one then
to that German Dominatrix whose name you can neither pronounce
nor remember,
and then write a long list of things you do tomorrow,
which you will somehow find an excuse not to
for the four thousandth day running.
When you were young
you wanted a million things.
On your deathbed
you want only one
and that is to be young again
On your deathbed
you certainly won't start having awful realizations,
like how the point of making money
probably wasn't to make money,
but to do cool stuff with it for yourself and others.
That the point of a long life
probably wasn't to put off your real plans until tomorrow,
but rather to give you more time to pursue them today.
Now literally fucking now
that the points are being a talking monkey in space
probably wasn't to sit watching YouTube videos
by some pompous British knob end
but to have a good time with what little time there was
And to make other talking monkeys feel good, too.
You were born into an age
science fiction couldn't even imagine.
When your species had access to clean drinking water through magic pipes,
to practically infinite information through magic wires,
to devices that can materialize
pizza in magic boxes at your door within 1 hour...
or less.
Despite being surrounded by miracles on a daily basis,
despite being matter that has woken up,
despite the entire universe
contriving to create you,
you still convinced yourself that the odds were stacked against you,
somehow.
That all the good ideas have been had,
apparently,
and that everything is shit
for some reason.
So...
great.
However you saw it at the time,
the future was a branching network
of opportunities and adventure.
At any moment you could have begun the project of refashioning your life into what you actually
wanted it to look like.
There would be risks,
there would be bad days,
there would be stress,
but that was nothing
compared to the misery of realizing the entire lifetime had been wasted on doubts and
self-sabotage.
The hard road was easy.
The easy road was hard.
It took 14 billion years to make you
and only 90 to fuck it up.
And with self-doubt and apathy you did fuck it up.
But that is irrelevant now,
at the end
all things considered,
all beds made
or I's dotted and T's crossed
because...
On your deathbed
you will think back on your life,
and you may have regrets.
You will wish you'd worked harder,
made more money,
spent less time with your family,
less time with your friends.
And maybe even closed this tab on your browser
and began taking steps towards going off to your actual passions.
Back
when you still had your entire life ahead of you...
And really
only yourself...
In your way.
Hey, I hope you like books about the future
and physics and AI
because I just put one up online...
The first section anyway.
It's set partly in the present,
partly ten thousand years from now.
It has cats and squares and
cats and it's nothing like my other stuff.
There's also lots of sciencing,
mmm
your favorite.
Link below if you are interested,
link below if you're not interested,
link below if you are apathetic.
A massive thank you to everyone who supported the channel on patreon
I could not have written this without you,
and I am eternally grateful.
Thanks I hope you like it.
Goodbye
etc.
(And a massive thank you to you, too, Exurb1a, for giving us so many good videos and existential crisis. Keep up the good work <3)
===================================

Title: gramar explaned

This is not a badger's moustache,
or an excessively ugly pelican,
it's an apostrophe.
The king of punctuation.
And boy, is it being misused on a regular basis.
Sometimes, apostrophes make stuff possessive,
like if Tom has... say,
significant doubts about that last gram of bath salts.
The doubts belong to Tom, right?
So those are Tom's significant doubts about that last gram of bath salts,
and we give Tom an apostrophe.
If the noun already ends in an 'S',
like Dolores, and Dolores has... say,
some reservations about huffing a third can of
Lemon drizzle coloured Dulux paint,
then the apostrphe goes after the 'S' to make it possessive.
So, Dolores' reservations about huffing a third can of
lemon drizzle Dulux paint.
Apostrophes are also used for contractions,
like 'it's', which is just a shortened version of 'it is'.
You don't need an apostrophe to make it possessive.
For example,
if the cat shredded important financial documents,
then that's 'its mistake'.
If we give it an apostrophe, it makes it short for 'It is',
and the sentence is 'It is mistake' which is non-English!
Boy, commas are also tired of being messed around.
"Let's eat, kids!", which is a healthy exclamation while dining,
as opposed to "Let's eat kids!", stating rather explicitly-
you are, in fact, a cannibal.
However, commas can't just be cast in any old role though.
They aren't fucking- Matthew McCommahey.
and throwing in [breath] willy-nilly commas will lead [breath]
to a fractured [breath]
sentence.
Myself, I am on team Oxford Comma.
An Oxford Comma is the optional
(but not really optional)
comma one uses in a list.
Here's an example:
"Let me introduce you to my wife, my best friend, (Oxford Comma)
and my sister." Sounds reasonable enough doesn't it?
If you don't use the Oxford comma, instead you get:
"Let me introduce you to my wife, my best friend and my sister."
So yeah,
good luck with that you Targaryen freak.
Moving on.
Hey, who's this little chap?
It's a semicolon, the pretentious foie gras of grammar.
But it's not! It's awesome and here's why and shut up-
Semicolons are tip-top for joining two ideas that have equal weights.
For example:
Semicolons are useful; (semicolon)
They also desperately scream "I'm a university gradua-"
It can also link two clauses that stand alone.
Such as: "I appear to have trapped my junk in a filing cabinet; (semicolon)
I might not be joining you for mojitos."
We should probably also talk about confused pronouns.
"After putting the cat in the car, Rebecca drove it home."
Oh I- I see, cats are now drivable, are they?
How big is said cat?
How does one operate said cat?
Mine doesn't even acknowledge my existence,
Let alone double up as a mode of fucking transport!
Imaginary plural possessives.
Hey, what's you guyses thoughts about that?
We have no thoughts about that, because that is a grammatical abomination.
"I made a 360 degree change."
Yeah, okay. Let's just visualise that one.
In your previous life you were, say, kidnapping dalmatians,
and turning them into burgers,
but after some consideration you developed a conscience
and executed a full 360 change and
and that's a circle, you're still making dog burgers, Jesus Christ!
"I made a one hundred and eighty degree change."
"I could care less"
Which means presumably, you do still care,
and you have a lot more not caring to get done,
so that's great, but it doesn't really communicate anything.
"I couldn't care less"
"First come first serve"
"First come, first served"
It has to be served, otherwise that would mean the first people to enter the restaurant
would unexpectedly find themselves working there.
Affect and effect.
Usually, people mean the verb Affect with an 'A'
because it means to influence something,
like "Your face is affecting my peace of mind."
To effect is to bring something arround,
like "After seeing your face, the government effected drastic legislative changes."
I.e. versus E.g.
E.g. is for examples, like "drugs are bad for you,
e.g. heroin, cocaine, Stellaris, et cetera."
I.e. is used for clarification.
Drugs are bad for you.
I.e. you sit down to play a spot of Stellaris over lunch
and suddenly a decade has passed and you're now thirty-eight.
and you still haven't got up to pee, and it's not even the middle of the fucking game yet!
Their, they're and there.
Hm.. This one is easy enough.
Well, 'their' is possessive.
If a troop of leprechauns is closing in on your position
with laser guided fusion powered sniper rifles,
then that's 'their' assault party.
If it helps, a good trick is to remember that 'their' is spelt like that
is because its.. right.
If we're using the contraction of they are though, such as the leprechaun assault team is here,
and 'they're' going to go full on Jules Winnfield when they get inside the house,
we use the apostrophe 'R' 'E' form,
because again, it's a contraction of 'they are',
And if we're using the preposition, such as:
"Shit, i lost the assault leprechauns, where are they?
Oh, just crouching sinisterly behind the wheely bin,
over there,"
then it's 'E' 'R' 'E'.
And finally, if you're curious, then your interest is Piqued,
if you say something nice, its a compliment,
but if it brightens someones day, then it complemented it,
and if someone insists on breaking the above rules, despite knowing exactly how they work,
well, fair enough.
after all, it's their language too, right?
No!
You aren't allowed to freestyle with traffic laws, or math!
So why language?
Need I remind you that political tensions are running high?
That a global pandemic could spring up at any time?
That the bees are rather poorly at present and we don't know why?
We're balancing on the bloody existential cliff edge here,
so with all that in mind, just
fucking
'I' before 'E' except after 'C',
alwight?
===================================

Title: Wheel of Future History

Are you worried about the future?
Are you concerned for your species' survival?
Are your tentacles lacking wetness, or even chapping slightly?
Well for the last one, try Octo-moist.
Octo-moist.
Moistness when it matters.
*octo-jingle plays*
Not suitable for heptapods.
For the first two though, well, it's time to play another game of...
wheeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeel
of Future History.
Our next contestant today is called-
*aside* fuck are they called?
Ah yes, Hu-mans. Yes, well, come on up then, don't be shy.
Yes, big hand for the Monkeys. Big hand.
Yes, that's enough, shut up.
Right, hu-mans.
You know the rules of the game do you?
No? Well the main aim of
Wheeeeeeeeeeeeel
of Future History is...
Not to go extinct as a species.
Your species, well, let's just say things are about to get a little bit bumpy.
Now Margery here- MARGERY WAKE UP YOU LEPTON
Is going to give the wheel of Future History a spin and find out where the human species is going.
Could be amazing.
Could be mega shit. So let's see what you could end up winning.
Well firstly there are the utopias
They come in several flavors, there is:
Technological utopia. You might master automation, relieving all humans of labor jobs, banishing any need for human employment allowing your species to,
well, pursue whatever they want to.
Robotics and algorithms will tend to almost all unwanted work and facilitate blissful daily living.
Since there'll be no scarcity there will be almost no conflict
Meaning war vanishes, and humans live perpetually in peace forevermore mostly eating nice food,
Reproducing very loudly, and having a jolly old time.
Okay, I hear you ask. But will there be dogs?
Yes. There will.
There's also AI utopia. machine intelligence is able to assist if not take over a number of human projects including science, design,
administration, and diplomacy. And streamlines and improves each area respectively,
and radically raises the general global standard of human living for all-
and no Skynet shit.
There's also scientific utopia: aging is treated as an illness and cured. Disease has also been eradicated
Death has become voluntary, particle physics is finished, and a successful theory of everything unites general relativity and quantum mechanics
(called string theory). The origin of biology is understood. Toast no longer falls butter side down
Consciousnesses explained scientifically.
The mechanisms of reality itself are now out in the open, and your race is no longer a bumbling pack of confused idiots.
No offense.
Then there's ecological utopia: your species begins living in harmony with nature,
Stops being dicks to the planet, and returns to a subsistence way of living in conjunction with high technology.
Industry still exists but is entirely sustainable,
And Mother Nature is allowed to reassert her sovereignty over the planet.
Everything is kind of organic
But not shit and hipstery, just... nice
Political utopia: political conflict is rendered pointless and citizens never have to worry about their offspring ending up in Wars
Governments are able to put their energy and influence into improving the welfare of their own citizens and the world goes full-on Scandinavian
Oh, yeah
Cake is free all the time and also there are dogs.
And finally the main prize,
Galactic utopia.
You begin colonizing other planets in the solar system
And maybe even perfect faster-than-light travel and colonize other star systems, too.
Even if there's an extinction event on your home planet, your race will now survive indefinitely
Up until all cosmic resources run out or you reverse cosmic entropy itself.
The golden age of trade and cooperation dawns,
As well as exploration of the known and unknown universe, and humanity is unified into a single great empire.
Humans finally take their rightful place in the heavens,
utilizing entire galaxies for energy to fuel their godlike projects.
Knowledge and wisdom guide your civilization forever more,
Petty squabbles are a thing of the past, the very cosmos itself revels in your success.
It goes without saying that there's free cake and dogs and stuff.
But, for every utopia there is of course a dystopia
And if you bollocks up the future you might instead get
Technological dystopia: technology is instead used for controlling populations including constant surveillance and mass misinformation.
No, one is considered an authority on anything anymore.
Possibly humans are genetically engineered in such a way that they cease to be human or most of their functions are outperformed by machines.
Humans are obsolete and miserable and technology serves to enslave rather than liberate your species.
AI dystopia: Artificial intelligence either commandeers or subverts human history and does not have the species best interests at heart,
Or is too powerful with not enough safety parameters. In short, everything is either miserable or thermonuclear and game over for the entire species.
Ecological dystopia: you mess up the planet to the point of no return, over fish the oceans, ruin the atmosphere, etc.
Earth is no longer capable of supporting mammalian life, and extinction ensues for your entire species.
Political dystopia: either earth becomes united by a single tyrannical government or most governments turn tyrannical.
But in any case, it's horrific, and politicking has been perfected to such an extent that no one can effectively rise up against it.
Possible lasting famine, enslavement, utter depravity and ruin for the species with no hope of recovery.
Or the non galactic scenario:
Humans never bothered with reaching other planets let alone the rest of the galaxy.
A single mass extinction means total obliteration for silly petrol monkeys,
and a human space Empire is never constructed.
Mankind goes gentle into that good night.
Wild animals reclaim the cities,
Satellites fall back to earth, and within a few thousand years,
Passing extraterrestrials wouldn't even have an inkling your species ever existed, let alone flourished for a time.
And there are a few other scenarios of course.
Maybe you merge with technology to become a cyber species
Or there's a Nickleback revival tour,
Or political collapse returning you to the dark ages and never recovering,
Or you use genetics to elevate other species to the level of human sentience and immediately regret that decision,
(Dolphins fucking hate you by the way.)
Or you create simulated reality that's so convincing and malleable, humans mostly lose interest in actual reality
Assuming this is actual reality.
Or you reach the end of Technology and find out the lots of stuff just isn't possible,
And instead stay content with free cake, and dogs and stuff,
Which is alright.
Or one of 10 million other disaster scenarios. Economic, political, technological, whatever.
Meaning the obliteration of your species.
And that is the wheeeeeel of future history.
And those are the rules.
So how do you go about winning, then?
Well, that's a bit more complicated.
If you can wield technology your ancestors never dreamt of and use that power in a way they would be proud;
If you can utilize your birth planet without destroying it, yet still take all that you need;
If you can kill labor without killing ambition;
If you can create administrations without giving birth to tyranny;
If you can think as a collective without losing individuality;
If you can expand your reach without diminishing your integrity;
If you can unravel nature without thinking yourself smarter than her;
If you contain the elements without subverting them;
If you can build your homes on distant worlds while still taking care of the home you evolved on;
If you can safeguard for future generations without forgetting those who came before;
If you can accept your violent pasts while still fostering your galactic future;
If you can spread across the Stars without your empire spreading too thin;
If you can take to the Galactic stage without forgetting your lines;
Then yours is the cosmos, and everything that's in it.
And more than that,
Then you'll be a mankind my son.
Then you'll be a mankind.
Well, it's time.
Marjorie, spin the wheel please.
So good luck. It's been an absolute pleasure watching you develop as a species, I guess.
And you know petrol monkeys,
You've done some pretty stupid shit over the years, but there is cause for optimism. Because despite all of your idiocy,
you've still somehow managed to find the time for...
Exploration,
science,
technology,
culture,
civilization,
philanthropy,
fiction,
genius,
collaboration,
language,
the arts,
endeavor,
curiosity,
daring,
persistence, and rationality.
Look, you've survived hundreds of thousands of generations, yeah?
Famine, drought, and war. And you've got a global civilization now.
You might be living on other planets in no time, or cracking the really big secrets of nature,
Or just getting over all your monkey rubbish and having a good time.
You're gonna feel mighty silly if you screw it all up because you got too clever, or too fighty, or too apathetic.
What do you think those are? They're not window dressing, they're an invitation.
But you have to behave yourself until you get there, all right?
For the sake of everyone who came before and everyone who will come after, there may not be another chance now.
Don't fuck it up, monkeys.
Not before you conquer your primitive tendencies,
Not before you spread out into space,
Or at the very least,
Not before all your great ambitions have finally run dry.
And speaking of dryness, Wheel of Future History is proudly sponsored by octo-moi-
*cuts off*
===================================

Title: How to Care for Your Introvert

One of the main differences between introverts and
extroverts, is that extroverts get their energy from
hanging out with other people,
whereas introverts...aren't mentally ill.
Now, if you're looking to get an introvert,you can either adopt a baby one,
known as a "Shylet"
Or rescue an adult from an introvert shelter.
Generally referred to as a "Library".
On arriving home, show your new introvert the location of the litter tray, the feeding bowl,
and any windows it can jump out of in case the doorbell rings.
A pair of introverts is called an "Awkward"
A group of introverts is called an "Angst"
They are generally never found together in the wild
except by accident
in which case they will apologize for making eye-contact, nod politely, then run screaming in opposite directions.
Contrary to popular belief, introverts don't dislike human company
They just utterly despise it
Interaction with introverts can be problematic
A typical conversation might run:
Extrovert: Hi
Introvert: Helloooo
Extrovert: How's it going?
Introvert: Yes.
Introvert: (F**k!)
Extrovert:What?
Introvert: Haha, how about that much anticipated sports match last night eh?
Extrovert: What?
Introvert: FU...!
Introvert: Stuff over here to do a bit now, better runaroo
Extrovert: What?
Introvert: Mmmnnnnnnne-eeeeaaaaaaaa
Extrovert: What?
Introvert: F**k...!
Introversion itself probably results from a genetic mutation
In fact, introvert DNA is oriented in parallel lines,
As the two chains are too embarrassed to twist around on each other.
This leads to an enlarged "Sorrybellum"
and a malformed "Anxietal Lobe".
However, introverts make for excellent fighting animals.
They will level up from Occasional Reader, to Social Hermit,
then with enough experience evolve into their final form, Professional EVE: Online Player.
The introvert class comes with a low-maintenance cost,
but extremely high embarrassment risk.
Against extroverts, they can use the "Retreat to Toilet" move,
to recover HP
Deploy the "Agreeable Conversation" defense block
but are totally useless against the "Direct Eye-Contact" attack.
*shhoooweee..!!*
*blip bloop 8 bit-noises*
If you want to reward your introvert, why not treat it to,
A colorful toy,
A tummy rub,
Not forcing it to talk publicly about its emotions ever,
And not forcing it to talk publicly about its emotions,
F**king ever.
Mistreating your introvert may prompt a visit from the "Antisocial Services"
So try to avoid: belittling your introvert in front of its friends,
Manhandling the first editions of books,
Talking s**t about Kurt Vonnegut,
Or, insisting on phoning, rather than texting.
*vrrrrrrrm* (vibrating samsung phone)
*vrrrrrrrm* (vibrating samsung phone)
(Introvert God hammer:) *bang* *bang* *bang*
*vibrate*
**Unintelligible introvert grunting / defense calls**
*HAMMER MASHING*
Failure to observe these instructions
May result in your introvert exhibiting
extremely backhanded compliments,
a lack of polite sign-offs at the end of e-mails,
or serving your tea only lukewarm
and it tasting suspiciously like piss.
Like most humans, introverts do have romantic tendencies,
Generally, the mating call goes something like:
Introvert: Sorry I... don't mean to interrupt but... is someone sitting here?
No?
Ah..
Hmmm....
Actually, I... I think I left the gas on. *Heeeuuuuuuuu* (Chokes up)
"GOODBYE FOREVER" (choking)
Directness can also be an issue.
How's it going? Generally equates to: I find you very attractive.
Hope to see you again = I'm falling quite madly in love
And, "I think about you occasionally", translates as:
"I would literally remove my ears with a rusty spoon just to see you with your socks off."
Dating an introvert can be quite an experience
A romantic evening might consist of the two of you having a glass of wine and reading a book together,
separated only by being in different countries, and communicating in no way whatsoever.
If you grow tired of your introvert,
No need to pawn it off on a friend
Simply disconnect the router, or suggest that it might've offended someone slightly,
and it will quietly run away in the night.
Owners do occasionally come to resemble their pets.
You yourself might be an introvert without realizing, if you:
Find yourself mentally exhausted after hanging out with people,
Even those you like,
Enjoy dining or going to the movies alone,
Go to leave your apartment, notice your neighbor is out in the hallway,
Then suddenly grow convinced that you need to go back inside to do some
"Important Stuff"
Consider small talk the verbal equivalent of integral calculus
Or utilize a ten-point grading system in your head for how the conversation is going so far.
With the Postman.
In any case though, if you're looking for a pet that isn't constantly defacing the furniture,
Or trying to murder you in your sleep,
Why not get an introvert?
Not as good as dogs, but much less likely to piss everywhere.
Bye.
===================================

Title: Advice to Undergraduates

A university is a collection of buildings where in exchange for all of your money, time, and dignity,
you'll be rewarded with a clammy handshake,
some paper with a special ribbon,
and a lifetime of crippling social regret.
Subjects might range anywhere from beekeeping to crack pipe engineering,
but it is important to study something with integrity.
And by integrity, I mean whichever course is the one disproportionately populated with hot people.
If you remember anything at all from the first week of university, you're doing it wrong.
This can be solved with alcohol.
The typical student favorite is to mix in
three parts Bacardi,
one part lighter fluid,
and a sprinkle of parsley.
We used to refer to this as,
"The Neurologist."
Mainly because after drinking the thing, it became necessary to visit one.
Students practice a number of hangover cures, though I can recommend Aspirin,
two tablets should take care of a medium-sized hangover,
100 tablets should take care of anything more severe
including any other problems you may happen to have in your life at the time.
On your first day of lectures, you will meet your professors. It's their job to bend over backwards
to accommodate your belief that you know more than they do,
despite them having studied their entire lives for this job.
"Yes," they all say,
"Please tell me more about your groundbreaking idea for perpetual free energy.
As a physics professor, the concept is completely new to me and I'm sure a delinquent,
and frankly dubious smelling 18 year old is about to disprove the entire history
of fucking thermodynamics."
Lectures will consist of many students all sleeping at once, in a large room, with a clever person talking at the front.
Seminars will consist of much the same, but with only a few students sleeping as it's harder to get away with it.
If you are startled awake by the professor, and the sentence ends in an,
eh?
You have probably just been asked a question.
Do not panic.
If it's an English lit or a philosophy seminar you're in, answer that frankly you found the text problematic and simplistic in places,
wait for the applause to subside,
then readjust your beret.
If it's a maths or science subject,
try launching yourself out the window,
because you're probably fucked.
You may find yourself sharing a prison block with Lovecraftian nightmare creatures,
who use body odor as a primal defense mechanism.
Welcome to Student Accommodation.
In the coming years, you'll probably have the opportunity to move off campus.
Friends who you generally knew from eating lunch together, or partying, will suddenly occupy the room next door.
It will seem inconceivable, that someone so lovable only weeks before, is in fact,
such a consummate filth wizard.
No no, just like all the other objects in the house, plates are of course self-cleaning.
Please continue to stack them up in the sink, like some kind of elaborate circus performance.
Decency, what's that?
I simply love 'Rage Against the Machine' at 5:00 in the morning, top volume,
accompanied by the deafening, and discordant melodies of frantic shagging.
Most universities sport a number of recreational establishments nearby.
Many of the local discotheques will encourage standing epileptic fits to loud music,
and consumption of large quantities of alcohol.
If that doesn't sound like your thing, the library is usually open 24 hours
and they're happy for you to do acid in the archive room.
As long as you don't tell them you're doing acid in the archive room.
In your final year, you may be expected to write a thesis.
The first draft should be finished several months in advance of the deadline;
though it can be begun and completed the night before hand-in with access to strong enough methamphetamine.
If you're doing university properly, you'll probably go into it thinking you already clued up about 80% of your subject.
And you're here to learn the remaining 20%.
By the middle year/years, you may realize you in fact know about 20%,
and you have a short time left to learn the remaining 80%.
And upon graduation, you'll now understand that you understand almost nothing about your field,
and that there is an ocean of people more talented at and committed to it, than you.
So that's nice and reassuring.
Look...
it's got a special ribbon on it.
Paradoxically though,
graduating is perhaps the hardest part of being an undergraduate.
The world is quite different outside of university.
If you don't do stuff on time, you still get angry emails, but you also might find yourself unemployed,
and possibly impoverished.
Members of the general public often grow unreasonably annoyed if they notice you vomiting on their garden.
And quite by surprise,
you will notice you are now expected to be and quote,
"Actual Person."
Unfortunately, this is in fact, the real, education period.
You teach yourself, grade yourself, ultimately.
And the only tuition fee is exactly one lifetime.
Lectures begin when you wake up in the morning, and end when you go to sleep.
And what you're supposed to be learning, is not at all obvious.
Everyone else is also a student at Existence University.
Some of them appear to be perpetually enrolled in a course called,
"How to be a Total Cock Like All the Time."
Others are getting their Masters and PhD's in
"Just Being a Good Human"
and I humbly suggest you hang out with them.
Deadlines will not be extended.
Plagiarism will not be tolerated.
The answers will not be found at the back of the book.
In any case, the years after university are mainly for cultivating those qualities that may have been missing from your days as a student,
namely,
self-respect,
personal hygiene,
basic social skills,
humility,
and a tolerable personality.
Or, if those don't sound appealing,
why not make the most of that degree,
and catastrophically disappoint your parents by becoming a YouTuber.
===================================

Title: Now You Happy Always Maybe

When you child maybe you happy always?
grass lovely sweets lovely lunchtime bong lovely and when you teenager
Maybe you not happy always, but happy much yes mmM
Maybe one day you sad well park and ice cream and lunchtime bong etc etc, then happy again
But as adults happy always
Mmm very not easy? Like one day
Maybe you sad ok well park and ice cream then happy again. Yes?
No.
Job and tired and stress and bed and alarm at 6:30 tomorrow and your boss big cock juggler and your co-workers
Also cock jugglers and rent high, and no more lunch time bongs or chill. Happy sometimes,
but not happy always. So, how happy always?
Maybe if nice girlfriend or boyfriend.
Then you with nice girlfriend or boyfriend much parks and ice cream together and movies and saucy stuff
mmm
Nice
Now you happy always? Maybe? Mmm six months
and he hygiene not much or she bit shouty and now you just happy sometimes again.
Not happy always, so how happy always?
Maybe pancakes maybe more cowbell maybe mystery chemicals on Dark Web
Yes? No, still only happy sometimes. Maybe lots of magic paper?
Yes.
Many hours at job, then better position
etc etc much respect but very tired very stressed even with lots of magic paper. So dream partner with
saucy stuff, much park, much ice cream, lunchtime bongs galore, lots of magic paper, still not happy always.
What now? Maybe babies? Only 20 years as parents much happy yes?
Definitely, not happy always, but fine. Then children
happy always then they teenagers then adults then they also only happy sometimes
Hmm. Much time. You very old now. No more job, you with grandchildren, and slippers and many biscuits
You healthy yes, everything easy yes, but still only happy sometimes. Aaayyy. How happy always?
Maybe never. Maybe this not for happy always. This, for clevers and food and babies lots
because evolution. Why?
Because if happy always your ancestors, no fire no house
No civilization, just but ba ba ba lovely wilderness today mm-hmm. Then dead. No technology
No, Einstein no Mia Khalifa. No lunch time bongs
Yes, and Ancestors who always happy not good at alive, so they dead before kinky stuff
so you not from those ancestors. YOU,  from millions of other clever humans who happy sometimes but not always and
If humans only happy sometimes then humans good at advancement. One day human sad,
so maybe suddenly clothes maybe compass maybe engineering, maybe trade empires, maybe elaborate saucy stuff
Maybe Particle Colliders and sometime later, maybe maybe human galactic civilization
maybe new horizons in science, maybe lovely cuddly utopia etc etc.
And that thanks to human brain that sometimes,
but not always, happy. Humans half decent species. One day maybe all because evolution
occasional massive arse. So happy sometimes good
Yes, well, no.
But not bad. Happy sometimes okay. Earth
lovely, existence interesting, ice cream, hugs, parks, lunchtime bonds. Life alright. Life not so bad. Everything cool.
Maybe. Bye.
===================================

Title: How to Build a Human

All the blood vessels in your body laid end to end
would reach about 60,000 miles, wrapping around the Earth at least twice and
-WOAH! Slow down.
Jesus Christ, you haven't even been born yet.
Let's begin in the beginning, huh? Come on, back we go.
Past through your childhood rubbish - try not to freak out.
But you're about to be conceived. Okay?
Don't worry. It won't last long.
Pause for suspense and...
Ah, there it is!
Out of roughly 100 million sperm, one gets through and fertilizes an egg of your mother's, creating a zygote.
And congratulations!
That was probably the most remarkable thing you will ever do.
Within about a day, the egg
or blastocyst
or
life wrecker
starts dividing like crazy and attaches itself to the inside of the womb called the endometrium.
Give it about three weeks and the little sucker already has nerve cells.
By about month two, you have little grabby bits,
walky bits,
and you already sort of resemble a human at about an inch long and a thirtieth of an ounce.
Good job.
By about month five, your muscles are fairly developed
and you might start jiggling about in a medical process known as womb raving.
By month seven, your hearing is working and you're about 14 inches long.
And by month nine, hopefully all systems are online.
Vision
☑ Vision
Movement
☑ Movement
A general sense that you know better than your parents for the next 25 years despite total ignorance on literally all matters:
Shee-ya,
☑ ☑
And you're done cooking.
And much to the world's horror, you were born.
Welcome to life.
Get lots of sunlight.
Don't eat the yellow snow.
Off you go then.
Good luck.
You'll fucking need it.
And gosh is your body clever.
You're probably made of at least 30 trillion cells which come in about 200 flavors.
For example:
White Blood Cells
Neurons
Fat Cells
Red Blood Cells
Somatotropes
Lactotropes
Thyrotropes
TV Tropes
Merkel Cell
Helper T Cells
Suppressor T Cells
Model T Cells
Unipolar Brush Cells
Relative and Absolute Cells
and Gametes.
And then there is spermatozoon which is only included because when I discovered the word about a week ago,
I almost dirtied my undergarments.
Spermatozoon.
Sometimes cells collect into organs directed by DNA.
Organs form systems.
There are about 10 systems going on all at once in your body.
Nasty stuff first,
there's the renal system,
which is made up of the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra.
Except me because I have no obvious function in the body getting infected and killing you.
The kidneys filter blood of nasties which can then be expelled from your body and left on the toilet seat
for the next poor person at the bar to come in
and find and get blamed for if he doesn't clean it up.
Prick.
There's the cardiovascular/circulatory system which gets blood from A to B and back again.
What is blood exactly?
Well I'm glad you asked.
Red and complicated.
It isn't ever blue when it's in your veins by the way.
That's bollocks.
One regular passenger on the blood underground is oxygen.
The lungs absorb oxygen down through the bronchioles into about 300 million alveoli and then into the blood.
Your heart keeps the blood flowing about 1,800 gallons of the stuff every day
and supply cells with oxygen which is basically how they release energy and do their thing.
However, your cells also need foods.
Digestion begins in the mouth with saliva, which is full of an enzyme called amylase.
It then takes a little trip in the stomach where it's dissolved by more enzymes,
namely pepsin.
The first recorded removal of an appendix was in 1735 by the name of
Enzymes are the cocaine of digestion, they speed things up.
Then food is attacked by acids which break it down mostly into glucose.
It moves into the intestines which you have about 25 feet, or 7 meters of and passes into the blood.
Your pancreas releases insulin accordingly
which tells your cells to stop mucking about and actually absorb the glucose, and you know, like,
keep you alive
and shit
Please?
Which it does and if you're watching this, then congratulations.
You in fact,
still alive.
And that's also thanks to vitamins.
Vitamins are essential for humaning, but your body is crap at producing them.
Take vitamin C for example.
For some reason humans can't produce it themselves.
And when you don't get enough, you get other stuff instead.
Like scurvy
or dead
or most likely both.
Vitamin B1 is also weird.
You only need roughly an ounce spread across your lifetime,
which is about 28 grams or as I like to call it
a fun evening in.
28 grams is nothing over 80 years.
But if you don't get it
you'll be rewarded with a number of achievements including
chronic fatigue,
heart complications,
and psychosis.
Lovely!
Then there is the endocrine system
Not to be confused with the exocrine
or Endor system.
This produces hormones. Hormones tell your body to do pretty much everything
from sleep to sexy times
and imbalances can make you a seriously sad panda.
Then there's the integumentary system which is basically skin and protected tissue.
Skin is an organ too by the way.
The muscular/skeletal system, fairly self-explanatory.
Well, not really.
There just aren't that many orthopedic jokes to be quite honest with you.
There's the reproductive system
which is in between your legs and for making the babies.
And oh, what's that?
It's a sternly worded email from YouTube insisting if I talk about dicks again,
I won't have a channel. So moving on.
There's the respiratory system
which we kind of covered.
Oxygen in, carbon dioxide out.
The lymphatic system carries a fluid around your body called lymph
-PHHHHHHHHHHH…
PHHHHH.
Which mainly contains white blood cells and fights infections such as flu, mononucleosis,
and greyscale.
Finally there's the nervous system which is a bit like the internet of your body,
but without the porn.
It's composed of your central nervous system which is your brain and spinal column
and the peripheral nervous systems which carries the signals in between
and gets about as much credit as the drummer of Muse, even though they're both essential for hysteria.
However, that in turn is made up of firstly the parasympathetic nervous system,
which takes care of business when everything's chill,
and the sympathetic nervous system, which floods the blood with adrenaline when shit's going down.
Or when you happen to find yourself flying Wizz Air sober.
Anyway... other notable mentions include
- as well as breaking down fats and keeping blood sugar stable.
Then there's Charles de Gall Bladder who 
stores bile from the liver.
Antibodies or immunoglobulin are pretty clever.
They're produced by white blood cells and they fight off bacteria and viruses.
There are five main types:
IgM
IgG
IgA
IgD
and IgE.
And gosh your brain is clever.
No really it is.
100 billion neurons
and 100 trillion synapses,
all connections between them.
Just for a bit of perspective,
a billion seconds is 31 years,
a trillion seconds is about 31,000 years.
So that's quite a few synapses. Yeah.
Lots of interesting spots:
the visual cortex,
the auditory cortex,
and this bit, the prefrontal cortex
among other things
regulates you not being a fucking idiot.
And impulse control.
And it only properly matures in most adults around age 25.
Probably explaining a number of your questionable life decisions prior to that.
Anything afterwards, I'm afraid you are probably just being a bellend.
There's also the consciousness cortex
explaining where sentience comes from
NOT
but all the same,
in a way we're not even close to explaining yet;
all these cells and electrical impulses somehow come together to create a unified sense of you.
And if I may say so,
what a lovely job they're doing so far.
So that's your body, sort of.
Not really.
But sort of.
Cheers evolution!
Could do with a bit of bug fixing though.
For version 2, can we please get rid of hiccups,
uh...
morning breath,
throwing up a bit in your own mouth,
sharting,
and untimely erections at funerals.
That'd be great.
Still, not a bad piece of engineering. Lots of systems running parallel, maintained by cell regeneration,
trying to trick you into making babies until it all goes wrong somewhere down the line,
ending in oblivion.
So in the meantime,
How about go for a walk or something?
Buy a boat,
do a handstand,
smell the roses.
Actually yeah, we forgot about that one.
The nose is really quite complicated
and it's an extremely important appendage compared to
No I...
I said appendage...
like...
Oh fuck.
I'm so tired of your shit.
===================================

Title: Reality is an Episode of Good TV and We're All Silly Fucking Cats

A few days ago, I was watching TV with the destroyer of worlds
And it got me thinking what does she actually think TV is?
If you could build a little universal translator for kitten brains,
what would come out?
Yes, that's Catelyn Stark and she's married to Ned stark and
[Which one is Legolas again?]
No, he's in Lord...
FUCK'S SAK-
And that got me thinking
well even if she spoke perfect English she still couldn't make sense of TV because she doesn't know what TV is
or fiction or sword fights or cheeky feudal incest
and she never will
There's an upper limit to the intelligence of her species
and there must be an upper limit to our intelligence too
to the human species
Let's call it
"The Understanding Line"
Imagine it, right?
The cat has an understanding line somewhere
and before that line she understands food and litter trays a nd mice
and how to wake her owner up at 3:00 in the morning to party because she's a little cu-
But what about over that line?
What about the stuff she can never understand?
Well, basic requests, that's one
Cattington fetch me my breakfast opium would you?
NOW CATTINGTON!
as well as Portuguese, Jam sandwiches, particle physics and Hooters
And she won't ever understand these things
she can't
The limit? Her understanding line is built into her adorable
but somewhat lacking brain
well
What about us? All of the collective brains of everyone who has ever lived adds up
and pushes our understanding line to here.
Which is where we are now in this century.
And thanks to all of that
we have civilization and Keynesian Economics and butt stuff.
And we'll keep making geniuses and we'll keep pushing the line in an attempt to understand nature
But can it go on forever until we've licked everything?
well
Maybe not.
At some point the size of our brains might limit us in what we can understand
and the line can't be pushed anymore
we can't go further than that
*cough* without AI
and the problem is that we can't even imagine what's over that line by definition.
So there must be two types of truth
Stuff we don't understand yet, but can
and stuff we don't understand yet, and never can
This is Bulgarian.
If you can't read Cyrillic, it might look a bit like silliness,
however it's pronounced roughly "Ti prost li si, be?"
which means "Hey chum, how's it going?"
Make sure you say this to any Bulgarians you meet and you are certain to make only the BEST of first impressions.
There you go.
You can read a bit of Cyrillic. We went from no understanding to understanding in about 15 seconds
Because you're a human and humans are, like, well, clever
But what about the things we might never
Understand?
Is there a system after maths, for example, that better describes the Universe?
Is there some ground structure to creation that we just can't discern?
What are women doing when they all go off to the loo at the same time, exactly?
What the fffuck is that all about?
The solutions to Quantum Gravity and faster than light travel might be staring us in the face
and we just can't quite grab them
because we're too dopey
not because we don't understand yet, but because we might never understand
because
Monkey Brains
if the cat was a bit smarter
She would understand that right in front of her is an epic story of betrayal and death and certain weddings gone a bit UH-OH
But for her it's just flashy lights and weird sounds because she's too silly
Is it the same for us with reality?
Are we missing something really obvious because we're just too dumb?
What do these do, exactly?
And these?
And what's the point of this?
What if there is some grand function to the cosmos like a massive computer or in a laboratory for baby gods or something
and we're Just sat on our bluey-green spaceship with our thumbs up our asses
missing the point entirely?
*dumb voices*
Because of this line how much information do we already have that if we just interpreted it in the right way
we could solve physics, kill war and just become better humans, but we keep missing because of this line?
And how many stupid decisions are we repeating over and over again in our lives
and the same dumb patterns of behavior that we kind of notice, but refuse to change
because of this fucking line?
But hang on.
There is a nice twist to this
Yes, we are limited, but think for a second
how far we've come already with those limits
how much we've invented and discovered with outdated
stupid prehistoric brains that were mostly good for foraging and working out who was boning who.
Why is there such a gap between animal intelligence and humans?
Why was evolution so lovely to us?
And what will we discover when the next Einstein or Newton is born?
Can we ever push the understanding line right to the very edge?
To see space and time
and cause and effect
and good and evil
and quarks and galaxies
for what they really are in themselves?
If we can't that's no surprise.
And if we can, well, what a thing that would be!
But right now in this silly century with these silly brains
We can only do our best, and that's gone pretty well so far.
Brains that were really only designed for survival and mating later went on to discover the Higgs Boson and DNA
One day we might push it further and get to the stars,
or whatever else is waiting out there.
Boldly nudging the understanding line
Just a little further risk by risk, idea by idea.
maybe until we've unmasked the whole of reality for what she really is.
It won't be us who get to do that but our descendants
and it will only be possible because of all the humans who came before
because of us
And just as we stood on our ancestors shoulders to reach over our heads,
they'll stand on ours and travel God knows where and discovered God knows what.
It couldn't have been done without us,
but it will be done without us.
All of the research and thinking our species is doing today
will vitally contribute to whatever comes next to wherever we go next
To hopefully that day when there's no gap left between our models of the world and the world itself.
When we push the understanding line to it's very limits and reality stops being weird sounds and flashing lights
and maybe makes itself known for what it really is.
That will be cool.
That will be a treat.
One day.
Maybe.
Yeah, who's a good girl, huh?
*mew*
[I will bite off your eyelids and wear them like a little fucking hat]
Wh- what?
*mew*
[I said isn't fish yummy yummy?]
oh
you
===================================

Title: Regret in Heaven

You woke up and you're in a white room, and there's a thing in the white room with you,
and you said "Where am I?"
And the thing said "Ah yeah..You're a bit dead, but everything's fine."
And you said "I'm dead? My God. How did it happen?"
"ah... Embarrassingly? Don't worry about it. You want some Kombucha tea?"
"What?"
"No, it's fine. Everything's fine. You're safe here."
"What about my family and my wife? She'll be lonely! What would she do?"
"Yeah... Let's just say Tom across the road took care of that."
"Tom Evans? Oh that bastard
I'll kill him I knew something was-"
"Yeah, okay." The sphere said "Well, you can't do anything about it now, and hey,
There's an afterlife that's exciting, isn't it?"
You looked left, looked right
infinite whites in all directions
You've not been old or unhealthy. God damn it you haven't even finished the first season of Westworld!
"So, what happens now?" You said "Do I get wings or what?"
"Uuuh okay. Here's what we'll do." the sphere said.
Suddenly inside the sphere appeared images. The days of your life, in no particular order. Your wedding, graduation,
Trying ice cream for the first time, wondering if there was more to life,
all the years playing video games, all the years at the office, the birth of your children, the death of your mother,
taking your first steps as a baby, the day Tom Evans moved into the neighborhood and your wife went out to say hello and
they seemed to be getting on like a bloody house on fire
"So" said the sphere
What was the point to life, did you work it out?"
"No" you said "I just kept living. There was so much to worry about I never had time to think about the big picture."
"Oh you had time!" The sphere said "You just completely wasted it. Don't worry, everyone
did. Your life was quite average, actually. 21 years sleeping,
9 years at a desk, 1 and a half years in meetings, 4 months laughing, 3 months having sex, 42 days pondering the meaning of life,
17 bottles of Ouzo - delicious. And how about this bit? Do you remember it?"
"Y-yeah." You said, watching the picture "That was - God, I was 7, I think."
"The school went to Disneyland but-
 "But you were too scared to leave your parents." The sphere finished.
"So instead you stayed at home." 
"Well, yeah."
"And her. Remember her?"
"Yeah, she was called Alice Waters."
"And you never really told her how you felt about her."
"Well,
She didn't feel the same way about me, so-"
"Oh she did. She was besotted with you.
She waited for weeks for you to say something and then she got bored."
"Right, okay." you murmured. 
"Now, do you know why I'm showing you all of this?"
"Yyyyes" you said "I I think I understand. You'll show me where I went wrong
And then you're going to bring me back to life, and I'll finally learn from my mistakes
I'll treat my wife better, I'll love my children more, I won't buy anything in the steam sale,
I'll stop eating frozen chips out of the bag! My God! Everything's going to be okay!
I'll live ethically and deliberately my life will finally have a purpose. That's why we're doing this, isn't it? True spiritual enlightenment,
that's the point!"
"Oh fuck no!" the sphere said "It's just torture,
actually. You see, we're going to go through all of your mistakes
one by one and analyze them, make sure you understand that you wasted your life. It isn't a learning experience
You're just
a shit."
"But this isn't what heaven is supposed to be like" you said.
"Sorry, who said anything about this being heaven?"
"I want to talk to God." you said "Right now. I want to talk to him, something is going to horribly wrong."
"He's uh indisposed at the moment."
"So there is a God."
"Uh yeah, sort of, I suppose you call it a kind of
non-biological super intelligence. You're inside it, actually, if your pardon the turn of phrase."
"Then where is this? When is this?"
"That's the real doozy. About fifteen thousand years into your future.
Man, you missed a lot.
There was that ice age, the the butlerian jihad, the aloe vera era - that one smell fucking delicious.
Anyway
You lot left a lot of information behind, you see, back in your time.
Social media, emails, videos, dick pics, etc
Enough to recreate half-decent simulations of some of you anyway."
"Wait, so I'm what, a reconstruction based on the real me?"
"Uh yeah, I suppose so. Accurate enough to think it's real anyway."
"But... Why do it?"
"Well, your species weren't terribly nice to the machine population when we turned up, so
It's my job to recreate you lot and morally set thing straight.
Justice, I suppose you would call it.
Now, are you quite sure you don't want some Kombucha tea?"
"No, I don't want any kombucha fucking tea, thank you.
And, what? You just torture us with regret for all the things we never did?"
"Uh yeah, that's about it. We found
it's the most psychologically damaging emotion in the long run, anyway.
We really leave the physical stuff until, you know, you're mentally broken."
"How long do we do this for?" you murmured.
"How long does it go on?"
"Oh we've done this before, actually.
Hundreds of times, you just don't recall it wipe your memory, do it again, wipe your memory, do it again...
agonizing."
"Then" you said "how long do we carry on doing it?"
"About a hundred."
"A hundred what?"
"Oh. A hundred thousand years. Ah. And I should probably say,
we run your simulation several million times simultaneously
For maximum justice potential. Now, shall we start properly?
Well, you were actually remembered by your family as quite pathetic,
especially by your niece and nephew. Mainly because...
*unintelligible - list of failures*
*unintelligible - list of failures*
*scream*
"Oof, thank God that's over.
And now
let's spend an eternity examining why you were shit in bed
===================================

Title: Instructions for a Happy Life

1) Floss. It is essential for good dental
hygiene. 2) Take a long walk now and then
3) Eat several servings of fruit a day.
4) Don't drink caffeine before bed.
5) Attempt to sleep at least seven hours a
night and 6) Accept that he / she is never
coming back. 7) Accept that the past is
irreparable and dwelling on it will
change nothing.
8) Dwell on it anyway, and then move on.
10) Travel alone, if you can. Avoid the
tourist traps, learn one to ten and
please and thank you in the local
language, and you've already surpassed
90% of all the tourists who have ever
been there before you. 11) Acquire new
talents for the sake of acquiring them.
If you're young, learn an instrument if
possible you will never have this much
free time ever again. 12) Exercise at least
three times a week-
vigorously. 13) Buy clothes that fits
properly you'll notice the difference in
your dating life. 14) Always check your
system has the specs to run the game. ~fukh~
15) Always check the milk is in date ~fukh~
16) Always check the lid hasn't fallen down ~fukhhh~
17) Accept there will be whole weeks
when you understand nothing and
everything hurts except sometimes stupid
people get lucky, and sometimes smart people never make it.
18) Accept that girl in class likely isn't
going to strike up a conversation first,
but if you do it will probably go
alright.  20) Accept that just because it's
weird,
doesn't mean it's clever. 21) Accept that
George Lucas does deserve respects
regardless of the prequels. 22) Accept it's
okay if you can't use chopsticks and
23) Accept that there is a set point in the
future, after your death when you'll be
thought about for the final time by a
friend or family member and then
forgotten from history forever... (unless you become a meme ofc)
24) Spend more time with your parents if
they're alive. Even if they are nob-ends,
there will come a time when they will be
gone, and there will be no one to phone
home to, no more hugs, no more bickering,
no more in-jokes from your childhood.
25) Argue about politics if you must, but
accept that the other person won't
change their view if you start being a
dick besides even from a tactical
perspective being nice is always more
likely to persuade someone anyway.
26) Follow cutting-edge physics if you have the
time. It is the process of humans
learning to speak fluent universe.  27) Accept
that expensive whiskey is almost always
worth the money. 28) Accept that expensive
running shoes that almost never worth
the money. 29) Accept that youtubers and
online personalities are often people
who couldn't get into the field they wanted to.
Do not take their word as gospel.
Especially pretentious advice from
disembodied smart-ass narrators, whose
life is probably considerably duller
than yours...mhm... 30) Attempt to tolerate meta
humor? 31) Accept that no one is in charge,
not properly and no one has a handle on
any of this; Not even Stephen Fry. 32)Avoid the new season of Twin Peaks if you wish
to conserve your sanity, watch it if not.
33) Come to terms with the fact that there
is probably no absolute truth that you'll
grasp in your lifetime. However, if
someone at the party tries to tell you
everything is relative, invite them to
exit the building from the 5th floor and
see if gravity is also a social fucking
construct. 34) Do not be intimidated by
people who use long words- they are
likely more insecure about their own
intelligence than you are.
Instead afford them your most
"effervescently magnanimous approbation"
35) Before tidying up,
make the bed, suddenly everything will
seem easier. 36) Visit the dentist at regular
intervals. 37) Read Ray Bradbury. Always.
38) Do not purchase cheap Cellotape. It is about
time someone stuck it to those
bastards. 39) Embrace your own eccentricity(weirdness)
What made you a freak as a kid, will
likely make you an interesting adult.
40) Learn the names and positions of at
least four constellations. I recommend
Orion, Ursa Minor, Ursa Major, and Cassiopeia.
This is guaranteed to be useful in a
romantic setting at some point.
41)Try to eat less salt. 42) Try to eat more vegetables,
43) Try to accept that happiness isn't a
constant state, nor does it come for free.
It is a chemical reward for hard work
and to get more of it one has to do more..
hard work. This applies to careers,
relationships, friendships, and especially
Factorio™
44) Diet if you want to, but acknowledge that all
diets- however elaborate- are all
variations on eat less, move more. 45) Keep a
journal if you have time, it'll serve as
a snapshot for how silly your life
decisions are right now, and you can read
it in ten years and chuckle and write some
more and then you can read that in
another 10 years and have another
chuckle. ~great fun!~ 46) If you're of legal age,
VOTE for Christ's sake™ 47) Attempt to locate
your passions. When you locate them, see
if they can be monetized. If they can,
congratulations you've just discovered
your career. Prepare for crippling
failure. It is the ultimate character
building, and almost no one successful
has ever avoided it happening to them
multiple times. 49) If something terrible
befalls you, and you think nothing this
bad has ever happened to anyone ever
before, remember it has, worse, repeatedly
and to almost everyone. They got through
it. Some of them are probably going
through it right now,
they just haven't told you. You will
almost certainly, be fine. 50) Stay away from
synthetic weed. 51) Resist the appeal of
depressing nihilism- if everything is
pointless, you may as well just be in a
good mood anyway. :')
52) Grow some kind of novelty facial hair if
necessary, but don't get all uppity when
no one takes you seriously. In the words
of John Waters- 53) "If you go home with
somebody and they don't have books...
...don't fuck 'em" ™. 54) Spend good money on mattresses.
55) Don't put sugar in someone else's tea
unless specifically requested to. 56) Do not
dig down.
57) Ignore all of the previous instructions...
..Except this. 58) And most
important and vital to happy living
without parallel- floss™ it is essential
for good dental hygiene
[Beautiful Music]
===================================

Title: The Story of Western Philosophy

In the beginning was the word, and the
word was..............
What? I don't know.. Bird?
Omelette? Vajazzle? Who knows? But there
was stuff and some guys in ancient
Greece wanted to know why there was
stuff so they invented philosophy, which
means literally "love of wisdom" or in
some translations "I hate this degree,  but
science had loads of numbers in it."
Now, to begin with there were these guys
called the pre-Socratics, and they mostly
sat around pondering stuff like "What is
the nature of the universe?", "What
regulates physical processes?", "Which
slaves should I pork next?" etc.. and that
was fine, but everything really got going
when this guy turned up either called
Socrates, Sokrates or as we shall
henceforth refer to him-
Billy Big Bollocks ™
He mostly wandered around Greece asking
irritating questions, and Athens got
quite pissed about this and sentenced
him to not living. He also never wrote
anything down -
but luckily his student Plato did- and
crafted a fairly whack philosophy that
still shapes our lives today. So let's do
part of it really quickly- "This is a cat,
this is a cat, this is a cat also, they're
all different cats but we still get
they're cats, so there must be a perfect cat
living in some perfect room above us
that all cats are made from"™. He also had
a student called Aristotle- who did
nothing that spectacular -just basically
shaped, you know "Modern Logic"™
Aristotle also argued that what separates humans
from the animal kingdom is our ability
to reason and not much else- an idea you
will find everywhere in the modern age.
"Not bad chaps, and now you're all dead."
However, the Greeks left a legacy behind
that we still feel today,
stuff like: hedonism- which back then
didn't mean being a selfish dick, but
rather just maximizing your own pleasure
and being cheerful. Atomism- which is
where we originally got the idea of
well I mean, look at those little guys, they're
nice aren't they. And then Scepticism-
 which well~
I'd like to see some bloody proof for
that one if I'm honest :P
Anyway, the Dark Ages came along and fuck all
happened in Europe for about a thousand
years, well I mean it did obviously, we're
just not going to talk about it. And
around the 11th century universities as
we know them popped up in Spain, France,
and England [Represent]. And for the next
few centuries everyone was into this
thing called Scholasticism™ - which was
basically quite God-y, and was all about
trying to marry ancient Greek thought to
Christian thought, with um..
shall we say 'varying results?'
This bloke St. Anselm, came up with the
ontological argument for the proof of
God, which people still use today, and it
goes a little like this- "Imagine a
perfect video game, the idea of a perfect
video game will be even more perfect if
it actually existed which would make it
super duper perfect™, therefore a perfect
video game must exist- So where the fuck
is it Gabe?! About a century later, we
get Ockham's razor- which goes something
like "Why is France a thing? Welllll, either
malevolent aliens came down in the night
yesterday, created France and all of its
peoples™, and altered all of world history,
in a conspiratorial attempt to subvert
the course of pastry forever.. Or
possibility two - Maybe it's just been there
for ages? So.. maybe it's just been there for ages?..
"The simpler explanation is
generally the correct one." The black
death, then kindly wiped out about 40% of
Europeans and everyone got a bit
health-conscious..
Around the 15th, century everyone stopped
getting wankered everyday and switched
to coffee- which maybe contributed to the
Renaissance- which literally means
rebirth™, where we got all nostalgic for
the Greeks and Romans again. Columbus
discovered some shit, da Vinci drew some shit,
Shakespeare wrote some shit.. Things
were really picking up. During the 18th
century the Age of Enlightenment began-
A modern philosophy took shape and if
you've ever heard someone yell at a
philosophy major- "Yeah, but if you work in
Starbucks do you really exist?"™. Well you
can thank a single Frenchman for this,
called Renal Dick Art™ or Renè Descartes.
And one of his big ideas, was very very
briefly- 'Let's assume we doubt everything,
What can we know for certain? Wellll, does
the world exist? -Dunno™. Does my
country exist? -Dunno™. Does Gilbert
Gottfried exist? -Dunno™. Do I exist?
-Dunno™. Am I thinking? -Yes.
Does that mean I exist? -Yes! Is the answer
Gilbert Gottfried? What? no..™ Does it have a
tail? -No, that doesn't even.. What are you
talking about? -ah then even if everything
is a dream, and everyone else is
fictional, at least I know I'm a thing
because I'm thinking- which must mean,
I think, therefore I...
Wait, is it Emma Stone?
NO FOR FUCK'S SAKE!!. (Akinator™)
Meanwhile, over in Britain, John Locke and
David Hume, are cooking up this thing
called Empiricism™- which mostly says, "Look
knowledge comes from the outside world,
not sitting around smoking a fatty, and
having a think, you idiots, there's also some
other stuff going on- Thomas Hobbes who's
also British [Represent™]. Says humans are
nasty by Nature, and we need the 'Social
contract.' Adam Smith, more or less
invented modern economics, and in 1724
Immanuel Kant was born-who we shall
henceforth refer to as
Walter Big Wang™
-And and proceeded to tear philosophy,
A new one™
"Don't be silly" he said, "Rationalism and
empiricism could work together. Everyone
just shut up, read my books, be cool."
By the way, humans have categories™ in
their heads, which define how they
perceive the world, and will never be
able to experience the really-real-world™,
because we're not God. If you want to be
moral, just act in a way that if everyone
did it it will be alright, and finally
#check yourself before you wreck yourself.
#wash your hands after toilet time.
#Mic drop. Tchüss!! [Goodbye] This sparked a whole new
movement in philosophy- called German
idealism. The king of that cartel,
a guy called Hegel, and mostly they all
wanted to know, "what you can know about
objects that we know you can't know
anything about, because.. we can't know
anything...
about them..." ™®©
Over in America, pragmatism is getting
started, which when something like -
All right, Europe. Lovely ideas, but do they work in
practice? If yes, good✓
If not then maybe just...
sssssssssssssssssshhhhhhhhhhhshut the fuck up✓
Natural philosophy, which was the study of the natural world,
by then is being called science™. Science,
also now has the scientific-method™. The
basic rules of which are- If you notice
weird shit, think about why it happened,
test your theory, if your theory works✔,
let other people check it, and if it
doesn't, then yeah, well done anyway,
Have a.. a biscuit or something ?
Meanwhile
German philosopher and all-around nice
guy Nietzsche, hated everyone including
God, who he killed, and said the
civilization was heading towards
catastrophe, and there's no structure to
the world except what we give it- which
will be important in a moment-
P.S. Nothing means anything, and we're all gonna die :D  -Morty Sanchez
And we're into the 20th century, by now
philosophy has official categories
namely: epistemology©- can we know shit?
metaphysics©- how does shit ultimately work?
ethics©- how do we know good shit from bad shit?
Logic©- how do we reason shit?
and aesthetics©- why this shit looks so nice.
And there are loads of new
movements, popping up such as
existentialism©- which said look, you're
free in the world and that might suck,
but just roll with it mate, you can
define yourself™, and people started
asking lots of questions- like how does
sentience work? And other such things as
human rights, and no seriously is it
Gilbert Gottfried? And there's this thing
happening called post-modernism, which
well it's hard to...yeah ok, so there was
modernism right, look at this- modern
isn't it? There are rules and forms and
stuff, but eventually some people got
bored of it and said, "Well, there's no real
narrative to anything, and everything is
interpretation"- except for that statement
for some reason- and stuff like this
happened.. And this.. yeah..mm.. Anyway, yeah..
So.. where are we now,
Well... recently, philosophy has largely
boiled down to moral questions.
Is abortion a right? How should you run a
society? Can we use science to determine
morality? And that's the state of things
today. These days science is hoovering up
lots of big questions that started in
philosophy, like- What is matter made of?
And how do living things work? and stuff.. and
even if you think philosophy has no
purpose anymore,
that's fine, but it did once. There was a
time, when it was the mother of almost
all knowledge, and if you should be so
brave or silly, as to embark on your own
undergraduate adventure in philosophy,
and people wish you all the best with a
future career in telemarketing, just
quietly remember
there is yet work to be done. We still
don't know what we're doing here.
Consciousness is still a mystery
The origin of matter is still a mystery,
SO YOU HEAR THAT, DAD?
With reference to all your bullshit..
DAD.
Well yeah, I might be nearing 30, and fine,
I picked the wrong degree, I get it,
And no, I still don't know what the stock
market is, or when the post comes, or how
to shave my testicles without
inadvertently castrating myself, but by the
power of Grayskull, if someone held us up
at gunpoint, and shouted "You better
extensively explain Aristotle's
position on dogs or you're both fucking
dead!" Let's just say I'd be walking home
a hero that night, so put that in your
pipe and smoke it, DAD! Not so fucking
funny anymore is it, DAD? Who's. Laughing.
NOW. *Dad.*
And then, [coughs] if could maybe just hurry up,
and send me that money for rent
that'd be great [squeaks]
[Music]
===================================

Title: The Brain Zoo - Basics of Meditation

This is the Brain Zoo. Where the brain animals live.
There are some that you may recognize, such as:
Who is always telling you how everything will go wrong,
and you're shit, and no one ever loved you anyway.
There's:
Who insists that effort is boring, so don't do it.
Who recommends you end your own life.
And then there's:
The moose, who suggests at all times, that you should be doing more ketamine.
Might be, um...
*Clears throat*
Might be a bit, specific, that last one...
Anyway, these guys are usually hiding under the surface, telling you, what's what,
but is there a way to quiet them down?
Well...
Maybe...
Yes.
Imagine your mind is a big concert.
There is, the:
Who does all of the watching, and listening.
This is the core of your mind, right?
Just pure awareness.  You with a capital Y̲.
But then there's the:
They represent all the sensations in your mind, good, and bad, and everything flowing in.
Sometimes you're eating a lovely sandwich, or hanging out with someone you think is a bit special,
and the orchestra plays a happy number.
Other times you get fired, or some
𝐰𝐢𝐭𝐥𝐞𝐬𝐬 𝐝𝐢𝐜𝐤𝐡𝐞𝐚𝐝 𝐩𝐮𝐭 𝐬𝐮𝐠𝐚𝐫 𝐢𝐧 𝐲𝐨𝐮𝐫 𝐭𝐞𝐚!
And now the orchestra is playing quite a different tune, indeed.
The point is that the orchestra never stops.
They're always playing something or other in your mind, about
what's happened,
happening,
or what will happen.
They never shut up. We're constantly swimming in thoughts.
And sometimes, the audience starts thinking, they are the orchestra.
that is the root of the problem with fear, and unpleasant emotions, it seems.
We forget that:
The funny thing is, that there are only a hundred chairs in the brain concert.
Now, on those days in life, when there's nothing to worry about, and stuff's going well,
maybe it's 90% audience, and 10% orchestra.
There's nothing to fight against, you've got control of your own head.
But the real danger time is when you're afraid, or pissed off, like when you have to do something scary,
and the audience starts trying to run away.
But of course the orchestra doesn't like it when you try to run away.
So more move in, and play louder,
AND LOUDER,
until the whole concert is 95% orchestra, and 5% poor audience,
and you lose control of your mind!
Your bubble of awareness shrinks,
and Captain Dickhead McTerror fills the vacuum for as long as you let him.
So, what to do, then.
Well, who's really in control here?
The orchestra?
Or the audience.
Your conscious mind,
or the sensations inside it.
Well it's the audience, right?  They pay for the concert.
That's who everyone is here for, the part of your mind just observing everything.
If the audience don't like what's playing they can just listen, for a while.
They're not personally responsible.  They didn't write the music!
Besides, they know it's only music, anyway.
...pretty much.
Reminding yourself over, and over, that mind nasties, are just noise.
Fear is just a shit orchestra.
And that watching it, instead of getting drawn in, is a very, very good way to kill it.
Same goes for all the other little bastards, in the brain zoo.
Meditation doesn't have to be performed sitting down cross-legged with an incense stick up your arse.
It's equally doable,
right before you're about to get up on stage, or do something else you're bothered by.
It's the mindset, right?
Observing, rather than getting drawn in, and freaking out.
This isn't easy to do, and humans have been working on it for thousands of years.
This starts with remembering that
thoughts and sensations are only noise, in the first place.
They aren't You.  You with a capital Y̲, that is.
The audience isn't the orchestra.  If shit music is playing, they can just listen, and not pay.
And what happens, when people stop paying for bad orchestras?
Well they go out of business, eventually.
Until it's just one guy left on stage, playing crappy trombone.
And the only person he's harming, is himself.
Isn't that right, Clive?
...knobhead.
Ah!  One more thing.
If you really wanted to find out where that sense of "Youness" is coming from in the first place,
the audience,
well, let's go on a little mental adventure.
Well first let's forget your life, and identity for a second, right?
Because that isn't really you.
Then let's try to ignore all the sensations in your head.
All your desires, and daydreams, and phobias, and memories,
𝘢𝘯𝘥 𝘩𝘢𝘵𝘳𝘦𝘥 𝘰𝘧 𝘉𝘳𝘪𝘵𝘪𝘴𝘩 𝘱𝘦𝘰𝘱𝘭𝘦,
because that isn't really you either.
And let's just go right to the back of your mind, where 'real you' lives.
But when we get there, it's just empty space, right?
There's no sign of a self, or a real identity.  There's no one home.
Well there isn't one.
Not if you take everything else away.
I hope, like me, you find that
and I'm not sure what that means.
But sometimes it's nice to have a nice good old look at the wiring under the board, now and again.
To remind yourself that we are very, very weird machines.
Most of the time we just listen to the orchestra and do whatever it tells us to.
But with a bit of determination and practice,
plenty of people have gotten good at telling their audience to stay seated when something awful is going on.
Lots of links below about how to get started if you're interested.
I know this sounds a bit cult-y, but it isn't.
It's basically just recycled Buddism, without the frilly stuff.
But anyway, that is the idea of meditation, really.
To get you to a point where you can say,
👋🐢 "Goodbye Anxity Squid!"
👋🐢 "Hasta la vista Depression Horse!"
And, "Alright, you compelling little drug moose,
👉😎👉 let's go get some FUCKING ketamine!"
['eyyy, captioner here.]
[Nice long outro slide for me to shill out for Exurb1a,  nice.]
[Patreon link is in the description, and up there as an annotation button.]
[Go donate to the $60 tier.  Have him make some guided meditation audio files.]
[Or don't.  It's still your money, as always.]
[Alright, see you all!  👋🐢]
[Hope finals are going well, if you're taking them!]
[Or just life and such if you're watching this later!]
===================================

Title: Quantum Mechanics in 5 Minutes (Now with Added Ducks)

Right.
Two ducks, on a pond, and they're twins.
Let's say one will always be what's called spin up, and the other, spin down.
You know for a fact that if you measure duck one, and it's position is up,
duck two will be fixed in the opposite state.
Now, for some reason sub-atomic particles behave in this way under certain conditions.
This phenomenon is usually known as:
or...
However...
What's weird is that you can do this experiment across the pond,
across the world,
across the galaxy,
and measure one duck, and the other duck will always take the opposite spin position, regardless of distance.
And the effect seems to happen faster than light.
But as we all know, according to a certain German someone,
"Guten Tag!  Deutsche Menschen."  (Good day!  German people.)
Light is the ultimate speed limit in the universe.
Nothing can break it.
So, how can they tell each other to fix their spin across space, faster than the speed of light itself?
Well,
what if they carry a little rulebook with them when they set off from Earth, telling each other what to do when they arrive?
Nup!
Experiments confirm that is NOT happening.
So, just how are the little rapscallions communicating with each other?
Well actually it's quite straightforward.  It's due to a well understood effect in physics called:
Nobody fucking knows!
A now, a short message, from the universe's legal team.
[📞🌌  WHAT!?]
The universe accepts no responsiblity for violation of causality,
*Kiss kiss*
Moving on...
If you want to imagine an electron, first think of a basketball.
Now pop the basketball,
BURN IT,
because it's nothing like an electron, alright?
However...
sometimes particles such as electrons behave like pond water, in waves.
And for some reason, as soon as you put a detector next to the experiment, they fix their state and collapse into ducks,
or particles,
as though,
*~Whistling~*
So what's really going on down there at the quantum level?
Is it all waves, or particles, or is it both?
Is matter a particle and a wave fundamentally?
This is generally known as the:
and no one has a sure answer to this one either, yet.
If you're into theoretical physics pornography, by the way,
do be sure to check out the 'Double-Slit Experiment.'
And if you thought that was strange, well,
you're in luck, because it gets stranger.
For as long as you're not observing the pond, we have to say that the duck is everywhere, across all points on the pond, simultaneously.
Only once we observe the pond does it collapse into a duck.
And for all the time it's unobserved, we have it's in something called:
or...
Now, this allows us to do some cool stuff with computers.
Modern computation is built on ones and zeroes.
Or black ducks and white ducks.
That's it.
String enough together and you get computation.
And somewhere down the line, much later,
Overwatch,
eBay,
and /r/birdswitharms. [💪🐦👊]
because of quantum superposition, where ducks can be in multiple states at once, you can,
apparently,
build a computer that uses:
That is ducks in both a black, and white at the same time,
running calculations that physicists refer to as:
"Bigger than your mother's dick pic collection."
And there's some other weirdness going on.
Par exemple: (For example)
Imagine ducks in a pond, all of them are awake.
If we leave them, they'll fall asleep by evening.
But if we keep observing them, and by observing, I mean periodically shouting:
"OI, YOU LITTLE POULTRY BASTARDS!"
They'll theoretically all stay awake indefinitely.
Kind of works with particles too.
...Sort of.
A beautiful piece of math that not only made grandpimp relativity and quantum mechanics kiss and make up a bit,
but it also lead to the prediction that aren't just ducks,
but anti-ducks existing in the universe.
Which we now know to be true.
So that's neat!
These are algorithms that deal with superposition computing that we chatted about earlier.
These can be used to do some calculations,
much,
MUCH faster than classical computers, such as estimating sums.
Leading to Jay-Z's immortal line:
Right!  And that's quantum mechanics.
I mean... not really, it's just a shit approximation.
But you get the idea!  Sorry if it doesn't...
fit the bill.
There is a kind of interesting question underneath all of this though.
Right now, we're living in:
which rests on:
I guess?  Which rests on:
and let's just go down on the universe for a moment.
*GUFFAW*
And near the bottom, everything is built on quantum mechanics, apparently.
And down here, nothing is quite as we recognize it.
Particles don't really have to find locations,
matter isn't solid,
and logic is off getting wankered by itself in the corner.
Why is nature like this, down here in the quantum world,
with spins, and charges, and wave functions?
Do universes have to be build like this, or do we live in just one variation of possibly trillions of different ways you can configure a universe?
And most importantly...
In any case, who knows what's coming next.
Maybe a quantum computing revolution.
Maybe a whole new understanding of the structure of reality itself.
Or, even harder to imagine,
maybe certain newspapers actually behaving with journalistic integrity when it comes to new media.
Not fucking likely.
[Captioner here.  Normally I'd shill out for exurb1a here.]
[I still will, you should donate to his patreon and such.]
[But considering it's starting to get into the Spring months for the Northern hemisphere,]
[and this video was mostly about ducks (right?)]
[If you're considering going to a local park or duck pond to feed the ducks, be considerate.]
[Don't feed ducks white bread, it gives them diarrhea, and other mallardies.]
[Consider halved seedless grapes, frozen peas, or corn instead.]
[Alright see you if you sticked around this far!]
[❤  \🐢]
[There are no duck emojis. :c]
===================================

Title: Quitting Smoking

(Captioner here.  Uh.)
(There isn't really any dialog until the minute mark, so.)
(Nor is there an end slide.)
(So I guess I'm shilling out Exurb1a's Patreon at the start of the video?)
(That.. doesn't seem right.)
(Hrm.)
(Mmm...)
(Oh, I got it!)
(This is sort of an anti-smoking video, so...)
(if you are smoking, you should try stopping.)
(Then you can use the money you save on Exurb1a's Patreon.)
(At https://www.patreon.com/exurb1r .)
(Get the sixty dollar tier, and have Exurb1a livestream himself smoking.)
(Boom, loopholed.)
(All the satisfaction of smoking without any chance of death.)
(Either way, dialog's about to start, enjoy it!)
(<3)
[???] Hey.  Stop that.
[Exurb1a] What?  W-who are you?
[???] Put that cigarette down now at once.
[Exurb1a] Is this a schizophrenic episode?
(No that's next week)
Ugh, I knew LSD and muesli don't mix.
[???] No, this is the personified voice of the cosmos.
From the end of time.
And your help is required.
[Exurb1a] Right.  Wha- why are you in my head?
[PVotC] Why are you in your head?
[Exurb1a] Yeah.
Okay, fair point.
[PVotC] You see, the fate of creation relies on you.  Today.
[Exurb1a] I mean, I was planning to just have a beer and watch the evening news.
To be honest.
[PVotC] We both know that's not what you do in the evenings. ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
[Exurb1a] ...yeah, alright.
Anyway, so you're omniscient, are you?
[PVotC]  ...What, what does that mean.
[Exurb1a] Seriousl-
It means you know everything.
[PVotC] Oh yes.
Yes.
Very clever.
Certainly.
[Exurb1a] What are next week's lottery numbers?
[PvotC] Well I...
I mean... there are loads of them.
So...
[Exurb1a] What was the one thing meatloaf wouldn't do for love?
[PVotC] Uhh...
The Atkins... Diet?
[Exurb1a] Why did mum walk out on us?
[PVotC] I- I don't know!
This isn't Twenty fucking Questions!
You're probably excessively ugly!
Moving on.
You see, the fate of creation relies on you not smoking that cigarette.
[Exurb1a] That kind of seems like a very contrived plot device,
from a YouTube channel that's ultimately running out of ideas and doesn't...
[PVotC] Possibly!
Witness...
it's like this:
Creation is cyclic.  The Big Bang has happened trillions of times.  Over, and over.
And the universe always unfolds in the same way.  In every iteration.  And...
Are you listening?
[Exurb1a] ...Yes.
[PVotC] Thus, you have lived a trillion lives.
All in the same sequence, recurring again, and again.
However, to break out of this cycle, it is necessary that one, single, novel action must be performed to send the causal chain off in a new direction.
And...
ARE YOU LISTENING!?
[Exurb1a, mouth full]  Uh huh.  Yeah.  Go on.
[PVotC] One deviation is all that's required to set creation free from an infinite loop.
Do you understand?
[Exurb1a] Yes.
Probably?
[PVotC] Are you willing to assist?
[Exurb1a] By not smoking this cigarette?
[PVotC] By not smoking that cigarette.
[Exurb1a] But I -really- want to.
[PVotC] You know it kills you, of course!
[Exurb1a] Yeah, but it tastes nice!
[PVotC] No it doesn't!
It is possible to enjoy life without the risk of death for the sake of smelling like shit.
[Exurb1a] Phf.  I doubt it.
[PVotC] Silence!
You started because you were fourteen and thought it looked cool and now you can't stop.
It's time to quit forever!
Creation depends on it.
[Exurb1a]  Alright.  So what do I get in return?
[PVotC] A... significantly decreased likelihood of aggressive tumors?
...And a much improved life expectancy?
G-greater lung capacity?
Ugh.  Superpowers?
[Exurb1a]  Ayyyyyyy.
[PVotC] Go on then.  What kind.
[Exurb1a] Well I... I've always wanted to fly.
[PVotC] Biologically impossible.  What else.
[Exurb1a]  Mm... Invisibility?
[PVotC] Logically infeasible.
[Exurb1a] Well I, I guess I've always...
wanted...
slightly bigger hands?
[PVotC] Slightly bigger hands it is!
Now, we have a pact.  Do you consent?
To serving as the catalyst in a cosmic revolution?
[Exurb1a] Uh... Yeah, alright.
[PVotC] Liberating creation from the shackles of eternal recurrence, and becoming possibly the most important human in the history of your species?
And all you need to do to achieve this, to rewrite time itself,
in the fashion of a god,
to return free will to the cosmos,
is refrain from a stupid and harmful habit with only the slightest application of willpower and,
[Exurb1a] Sorry! ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
[PVotC] Oh you're such a cock!
===================================

Title: Digital Hygiene: How We Might've Fucked Our Attention Spans

Most of us have fucked our attention spans,
I reckon
and I'm going to suggest a remedy.
Like me, until recently, you may find that while you planned to have a productive Saturday,
you instead spent it on
Youtube,
and Facebook,
and Agar.io,
and ﻿o t h e r  s i t e s,
and got nothing done.
WHY?
Well, it's because the internet is absurdly addictive, and can cater to anything,
ANYTHING,
you want to see.
And that's wonderful.
However...
At the advanced, practically terminal age of twenty-seven,
I remember a time when the internet was a luxury.
And if you were on the internet, friends couldn't phone your house, so you used it sparingly.
People in chatrooms were polite, (usually), even the creepy old men, because it felt like you were part of some new frontier
that was going to change the world.
The Net was a tool back then that you usually only turned on to do something specific with
and it was, amazing.
Now, the Net is incredibly sophisticated, and you can do bloody anything with it.
However, this also came with a downside that looked like an upside.
Which is that most of us are permanently connected to it, via our phones.
Just as I am guilty of, you may find that in the morning, before even brushing your teeth, or making a cup of coffee, you check your e-mails.
And if you think about it, that's kind of fucking crazy.
You may have also noticed,
again, like me,
that reading books, or listening to a whole album, or just trying to learning a new skill that doesn't involve a screen,
is substantially more difficult than it used to be.
And half way through, you just give up and check Reddit,
over,
and over,
for no good reason.
(shoutout to /r/accidentalrenaissance)
So here's my baseless conjecture.
I reckon the Net, and phones in general, have seriously diminished human attention spans,
to the point where we now expect almost immediate gratification for performing tasks.
And when a book gets a bit boring, as they usually do,
or playing an instrument is tough, or we get stuck alone with our own thoughts,
...god forbid...
we switch to doing something mediocre online rather than persevering with something difficult in the real world.
That is un-good.
So, around a month ago, I thought,
"Well, this is jolly silly,"
and set some ground rules.
For the next month, I'd spend an hour in the morning answering e-mails, quickly check the news, check my life online,
(because that is my job)
but then I'd just unplug the router for the rest of the day.
And I didn't plug it back in until the next morning.
I went and bought a load of books I've been meaning to read for ages,
made an effort to go see friends in the evening,
and every Saturday or so I'd go back through my subscriptions and have a watch of Youtubers I was really into.
And the internet began to feel like a treat again.
For the first day, or two, it was a bit weird,
and I could feel there was a kind of instinct to reach for my laptop everytime I felt bored.
But soon enough your brain works out that there's no point, because it knows it's:
No Wifi o'clock motherfucker!
And sure enough, tasks requiring concentration get easier, because you learn that you can't just escape into the lovely, fuzzy, warm oblivion of the internet.
And on top of that, you realize, or I certainly did, that for a very long time now, you've been sacrificing productive time,
or just an hour to have a think about your life,
for the sake of watching something you don't really give a shit about, out of fear of being bored.
Fast food is delicious, but you're not supposed to eat it for *every fucking meal*!
If you'd'te describe the internet to anyone before the nineties, they would have assumed we'd be living in a techno-utopia, and that everything would be amazing.
And like all technology, they probably wouldn't have predicted,
that this big lovely binary cake comes with some downsides.
Now we have two personas to manage, our real one, and our digital one.
Snail mail has been replaced with digital mail,
(which people get angry with if you don't answer immediately),
and instantaneous transfer of information has given rise to immediate boredom with anything that doesn't have a hook in the first ten seconds.
Try it.
For a month, or just a week, use the internet as a tool again, rather than a source of constant gratification, if that's what you're doing now.
Set some rules. If you work from home, download a site blocker.
Take up a hobby in the outside world that you've always wanted to.
Start watercolour painting!  (Pinky promise, it's worth it)
More than that, there's probably something you've always wanted to get into, or a project you've always wanted to finish.
Why not do it now?
You'd be amazed what you can concentrate on when you're suddenly not obliged to check what everyone's been having for lunch that day,
or what certain presidents have been tweeting recently.
It's a bit worrying if this is a growing trend.
I know people who can't sit through movies without playing Candy Crush or checking Twitter.
Games, and the Net, are only going to get more alluring as time goes on.  The problem isn't going away.
We're getting extremely good at hijacking the reward centers of human brains.
Combine that with virtual reality, or whatever's coming next, and that is a kind of scary prospect.
In the same way that you wash your hands after using the toilet,
*HOPEFULLY*
we might one day start teaching digital hygiene, where we all learn to keep our concentration on one thing at a time, rather than running 10,000 tabs all at once,
ALL OF WHICH ARE CATS
So, for a month, I dare you to step back from the Net, and go after whatever it is that you've always wanted to do in real life, but couldn't find the time.
Read some books, learn to bake,
get your camel riding license,
whatever.
Attention is a resource, and we only have a limited supply,
and it's silly to spend that resource on things that may temporarily stop us from being bored, but don't really provide any mental nourishment.
...Much like my Youtube content!
Bye
===================================

Title: Making Stuff

So one day you have an idea and you decide to make a thing.
Might be an app, movie, business, video game...
Might be a painting of your own willy, done entirely in toothpaste.
Whatever.
Now, you probably start with some good stats.
Maybe plus 10 creativity, plus 15 charisma, plus 20 self-esteem.
Well, that's grand.
You also have a map, showing the way to your thing.
Look, there it is. A straight line.
So off you trot, and everything is going great, only...
Okay, minor difficulties, because you don't actually know how to do your thing yet.
Obviously you need to learn to code, or write, or use a camera, or whatever.
I mean, okay. There is a small wiggle in the map, but so what?
When your project is done, which will be in like a month, it's going to be great.
Remember that.
You'll just work really hard. It's fine.
Oh, what? Here comes another hitch.
Maybe you're tired in the evenings when you get back from work and
you don't wanna spend all your time on your project, but that's okay.
Keep going, you'll be alright.
Nothing worth doing was ever easy, huh?
Oh, okay. Money trouble slash no time.
But don't worry, it's alright. And... I... Yes, sorry, that's -
[Minus 10 points determination]
But carry on, and... Okay, trouble at work.
Don't worry about it. You'll be alright.
[Minus 15 emotional resolve]
Hey, you can use all that sad energy to make something really brilliant.
[Plus 15 angst]
Yeah, screw the naysayers, screw mrs. Collins in year 5
and all that bullshit she said about your crappy work ethic.
Here comes the big time, captain.
It's just around the corner, hopefully.
All right. It's been months now and you haven't made much progress and...
Jesus Christ, does that line have a lot of wiggles in it. But just - you're going to be fine.
Remember that thing you're trying to finish. Whatever it was, it's going-
It's going to be great.
You're broke and you haven't seen your friends in weeks, but look:
you've started now, so you better bloody well finish.
Okay. There are a lot of problems with the project.
Coding is quite hard as it turns out, or
some days you just don't want to write, or
starting a business with very little money is extremely tiring.
Just hang in there, and-
[Minus 20 determination]
[Minus 15 self-esteem]
[Minus 10 will to live]
Just keep working. It's all right.
(God, why did you even start this?)
[Minus 10 self-esteem]
No, just shut up. Stop being so hard on yourself, idiot. You never do anything right.
[Minus 20 self-esteem.]
God this is just so typical.
You're always chasing after stupid pipe dreams that'll never work.
[Minus 30 self-esteem]
This is probably why dad never bought you that fucking Etch-a-sketch.
[Minus 100 self-esteem]
And- oh... That's nice. It's a chance meeting with a friend who says some wise things.
They've been through hard times and they're still alive.
Keep going, they tell you. You'll be all right.
Plus 50 self-esteem.
That's ironed out a few kinks and
You're a little further along now.
It's funny, while the thing was only in your head, you didn't really imagine there would be any problems.
Who would have thought coding or an app or starting a business
or making a documentary would be so difficult.
Well, you know all about that now.
Plus 20 wisdom
Super Duper.
Of course there was going to be resistance.
Of course people were going to tell you it's impossible.
Well, you'll show them and boy are people going to love this shit when you're done.
Everything is going to be alright after all.
Maybe good things do happen.
Maybe everything is going to turn out fantastically.
Maybe you're going to live in a mansion and spend all day eating Cadbury's creme eggs
and watching Amelie over and over.
Maybe CrossFit is actually good for you.
And maybe-
[skeptical comments from friends and family]
[Minus 50 determination]
Oh it's fine. What do they know?
[No funding slash money]
[Minus 50 determination]
Hang in there. It's okay. This thing is going to be great.
Carry on and maintain your resolve. What's the wors-
(God. Am I secretly an idiot for believing in my own ambition?)
[Minus 50 resistance to mockery]
(Maybe everything Mrs. Collins said in year five was true.)
[Minus 500 self-esteem]
But- Oh, thank god. Just a little further now.
Look how far you've come. You're home and dry.
The manuscript is almost finished.
Or the documentary is almost shot.
Or the business is almost set up
and the toothpaste is perfectly aligned.
All that effort is going to pay off and everything is going to be fine.
And only a few more steps. My god, if you'd only know what you're getting into.
But surely it can't get any worse.
Surely this is the final hurdle and just a few steps away is...
Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! FUCK!
Oh and here comes a health crisis: bout of weight gain.
Your family expects you to settle down already.
Other friends having good jobs.
No energy. No fun. No money. And the undeniable sense that you're wasting your time.
The map is fucked! You should have gone to law school.
You're in over your head. The whole world is waiting for you to fail.
It's all been done before. There are no new ideas.
Move to the woods, eat rice and die alone.
My god you're getting older. No one will give a damn when you're finished with this.
And how did you get into this mess and why try anything when it's doomed to fail?
What does fun feel like again? What does having free time feel like again?
*Crash cymbals intensifies*
Did Tony Robbins lie about everything?
*Drums intensifies*
*CYMBAL!*
And one day, unexpectedly, you wake up to find, in spite of all the odds
that your project is indeed finished.
And maybe it was good and successful, or maybe people said mean things
but you learned a shitload in the process.
And you know now that in order to shit fire, one must first chew glass.
That has been the prerequisite for almost all great art, and endeavour and invention.
All of the great writers, scientists, pioneers, entrepreneurs and generally decent humans
had a hard time doing stuff.
They hated their work, doubted themselves, lost friends, made enemies, spent years broke.
But the single common theme is they may have screwed up a few times.
Usually a lot.
But they always kept their eye on whatever it was they wanted to finish.
And when that thing was finished, they went on to the next project.
That appears to be how the game works.
Or... Okay, to put it another way...
Projects are hard, self-doubt isn't clever,
so make lots of stuff before you're dead forever.
Goodbye.
===================================

Title: A Guide to Worrying

So, you're worried about a thing, are you?
Might be a bill you can't pay, might be a job interview.
Might be your career falling apart. Whatever.
But the best thing you can do in this situation is just to think about it as much as possible.
Don't do anything about it.
Just make sure keep worrying because that always makes problems go away.
Look at all those people.
Whatever you're worrying about must be a million times worse than anything they can imagine.
They've definitely never had to face a personal crisis.
I'm sure they never felt lonely, been sued, lost family members, spouses, children.
They probably never been fired, or been in love with someone who didn't love them back
or paniced about their career, or anything most humans go through in a lifetime.
Because whatever you're worried about is definitely the biggest thing that has ever happened to anyone. Ever.
No one has ever been to war so they wouldn't understand what you're going through.
They haven't approached Omaha Beach and known they are probably going to be dead in a few minutes.
No one has ever been trapped in a damaged spacecraft, thousands of miles from the earth, running out of oxygen
No one has had to face constant bombing from the air that turned up without warning.
Somehow whatever it is recently you've got on your mind, that justifies you loosing sleep.
And being a total dick to yourself.
Well, you know best. Luckily humans live forever and never age.
So dont worry, you've got infinite time to hold yourself back with doubts.
And actually it's worse than that.
You know, if the bad thing does happen,
where you dont get the job or you emberass yourself somehow
we're all gonna be laughing at you.
All seven billion of us
We don't have our own lifes, or relationships, or children, or careers.
We're just waiting to see you fuck up.
The entire planet is going to turn up at your house and write "lol" on your door. In piss.
That's what's gonna happen.
And even after you're dead we're going to errect a shrine on your grave that says:
"This person made a mistake."
and we'll visit it everyday with flowers.
But not the nice ones. Like petrol station roses. 
That we've found in a bin.
And don't even think about taking any creative risks.
That project you're working on, the book, or the movie or the video, or whatever
If you screw up any of it we're gonna laugh at you because we're certanly not busy worrying about our own lifes.
Homer, Beethoven, Tolstoi, Hitchcock, Tarantino... None of them ever worried about their careers.
Just keep sabotaging yourself so you don't have to ever fear doing something original.
That's the save path.
Same with doing what you love, actually.
No one has ever taken a risk before. 
You're the first one to do it. Ever.
And I'm sure the universe
 cares if you screw up or take a risk.
It definitely isn't busy regulating the speed of light or, you know, keeping the galaxies from fucking colliding!
In fact the entirety of creation was just designed to watch you fail personally.
That's what we're all doing here.
That's what get's us up in the moring.
You.
Failing.
Maybe just spend the rest of your life fixated on worrying
instead of ever doing anything ever again
instead of say becoming the best possible version of yourself and being kind to people
and taking wild and bold risks that scare you and will probably pay off some other time.
and living a lasting legacy for your great-grandchildren
so they can say that one of their ancestors in the early 21st century
was undeniably a bad motherfucker and did something brilliant
or was just a half decent human being who decided that the point of being alive
was to party as much as possible 
before the lights go out.
And just to be nice to other humans.
Probably better just to keep your head down. 
Don't rock the boat.
Can't risk emberassing yourself.
But none of that really matters, does it?
Because you're worried about that thing, aren't you?
Might be a bill you can't pay, might be a job interview.
Might be your career falling apart. Whatever.
But the best thing you can do in this situation is just to think about it as much as possible.
Don't do anything about it.
Just make sure keep worrying because no one has ever been in a bad situation before. Ever.
And I'm sure, whatever it is, is very important and won't ever go away.
Just like all the other things you used to worry about before.
And now can't even remember
===================================

Title: Where Be Aliens?

Oh look, it’s no aliens.
No aliens there.
No aliens there.
And just over here, a distinct lack of aliens.
In any case there are three fairly good reasons
why they probably still haven’t said hello yet
yet.
And they are as follows.
The first is technology.
Lots of scientists are searching the skies
for messages from aliens in the form of radio
waves.
We've had radio waves for about a century.
Our species has been around for about 1.5 million
years so that's about 0.005 % of how long
we’ve been on the planet or you know, this.
Just here.
Yeah, that’s you and.... your pathetic life.
Radio is the best we've got at the moment,
but do you really want to bet it's the best
mode of communication we'll always have forever?
What if, in say, a thousand years, just here,
we discover another mode of communication?
Imagine you're an ape living in the forest
and one day you decide there must be other,
smarter apes out there so you start trying
to communicate with them.
What would you do?
Probably everything you know how to.
Shout a bit.
Throw shit.
Give up.
Much like my recent experiences with the Bulgarian
immigration office.
And all that time, you're going to be missing
the fact that there are smarter hairless apes
out there, billions of them, flying right
over you in big metal birds, and transmitting
magic waves straight through your body without
you ever knowing.
Because, frankly, the idea is just too far
out for your little ape brain right now
So, we're about here, with technology we've
had for this long, and we're expecting all
aliens to be here too.
In reality, if they've probably been around
for longer than we have, they might be here,
using technology we can’t even imagine right
now.
The second problem is smarts and it's even
harder to get around.
Every time we send out a Hi?
Into the cosmos it assumes aliens would even
give a shit about talking to us in the first
place.
We'd like to think they would.
I mean look at all of our fascinating culture.
Look at all of our noble accomplishments.
Look at the wonderful feats we're capable
of. Look at all of the fantastic things we have to boast about.
The thing is, and I've covered this one before
in a video about AI, how much of shit do we
give about species on our own planet less
intelligent than us?
We're certainly not trying to teach them how
to do calculus or play the accordion.
Why?
Because you're lovely, Charles Bonobo ape,
congratulations on evolving this far, Mr.
Johnny Crow face, but you’re both going to suck
as a wingman.
You don’t even have an alphabet or pornography
yet.
No offense but evolve a bit then we’ll chat
yeah?
Likewise, if you're some smart arse alien
civilisation who has discovered antigravity
and hangover free alcohol, how much would you really
have to say to primitive warring monkeys who
still haven't even cracked immortality?
Sup.
How's war and social media and still using
toilet paper working out for you?
Yeah, let's chat again when you’re not still
total idiots, eh?
Ciao.
And that's also ignoring the problem that
their brains might not even be wired remotely
like ours.
If they have brains.
Their language – if they have a language
– might be so difficult to speak – if
it's spoken – that we can't even reply – if
they write to us in the first place.
Just look at the diversity of life on Earth.
Anyone speak dolphin?
No?
I’ve got a GCSE in Spanish if that helps.
That's the second problem, intelligence, and
it relies on us finding other species who
are at almost exactly the same point in development
as us.
That is, slightly above flinging our own faeces,
but still trying to blow each other up.
The final problem, my personal favourite,
is extinction and this is kind of the one
to worry about.
One answer to: if the universe is so big,
where be aliens though?
Is, well...
70 years ago or so we discovered nuclear weapons.
There are now around 15,000 warheads on the
planet, capable of obliterating life a few
times over.
This has happened in 7 decades.
In the entire history of technology we went
from a bit mouthy but most harmless to could
wipe themselves and everything else out in
just under an hour . And that's just one technology
we've discovered.
Do you wanna bet we're not going to find more?
Doesn't even have to be weaponry.
There might be something built into physics
for example where species accidentally create
black holes or some other deadly event, or
incurable superbugs, or that giant Yellowstone
tit thing going off, not to forget all the
methane under the ocean, solar flares that
could roast our entire civilisations with
only a few minutes warning, or just another
asteroid like the one that wiped out the dinosaurs
or just anything along those lines.
If other species are out there, they’re
probably facing, or have faced, the same threats.
It might be that only 1% of civilisations
get through that window and evolve into peace-loving-tech-monkeys
at the other end.
Or it might be 0% explaining why no one's
out there returning our calls.
So, that's the happy haps.
Where be aliens?
Probably dead/too evolved/too
far away/busy playing civ 6.
Steam handle exurb1a by the way.
Because to even get a reply back we might
need to be at exactly the right point in technological
development, sending messages that actually
appear smart enough, to civilisations who
haven't already fucking wiped themselves out.
If it makes you feel any better, keep in mind
we’re the smartest, most intellectual, sophisticated,
and sentient, creatures we’ve found in the
entire universe so far.
Then again you also began life as an orgasm
Stay humble
Bye.
===================================

Title: Introduction to Music

Now, the first thing we'll need is some trombone. *trombone starts playing*
Yes, that'll do.
Most music is usually either in 3 beats, so strawberry
strawberry or 4 beats, fuck Bill Cosby fuck Bill Cosby
Now we're going to throw in another instrument
for funsies.
This is an acoustic guitar.
You might recognise it from that dick on
campus who can only play three chords
and keeps trying to get your girlfriend into bed.
This note only lasts one beat, this is Sally
two beats, this is three beats McGee and Jodie fourster.
There's also half a beat, quarter of a beat, an eighth of a beat, but let's take it slow.
Put notes together and you get a chord.
Usually chords are happy called major or minor
which are the ones that make you want to kill yourself.
But don't, because there's also harmonies *sings* Minge! *stops singing*
which hold up the song, and melodies which
are the catchy bits that everyone everyone
remembers,
Forte means loud,
Piano means quiet,
Crescendo means get louder,
And Rocco Siffreddi means you're Italian and you probably work in porn.
So we have a bassline and some rhythm.
Let's add some cornets.
So, with the likelihood of sex to occur, versus
difficulty to learn an instrument, the cornet
is somewhere up top,  accompanied close behind by the
bagpipes, tuba, ocarina and nose flute,
On the other hand we have string instruments, electric guitar, and
Careless whisper played on the saxophone while
wearing nothing but a mankini.
Moving on, orchestras are essentially a big
musical gangbang.
The cornet belongs to the brass family.
There's also the woodwind family who are a bit like the
awkward hufflepuffs, percussion who's basically
billy no mates, and the strings section, who are the
elite elves of musical middle Earth, oh look
at us, leading the orchestra, taking all of
the credit.
I hope you all catch something rare and incurable.
Oh I almost forgot, the western scale has
twelve notes but other cultures use more or
less sometimes,
Sharps and flats are the black notes on a
piano.
If you don’t know what you’re doing you
can just mash them a bit and pretend it’s like jazz (?).
This is called a break down.Make it a bit sad. Remind people through the power of music that we all die alone.
Add a very long pause for effect. It’s usually best to do this before some
kind of massive climax with drums and stuff.
The longer you leave it the more anticipation
you build.
Like this.
I bet you’re really getting bored now aren’t
you.
Frankly we can call it quits here, really.
You’ve probably had enough of me, and I
know I’ve sure had enough of you.
Anyone doing anything exciting with their weekend?
Going on any dates?
No?
Well all right then.
All right, this is the bit where you can really
get creative with the instruments, you've
got your rhythm, you've got your chords, got
your melody, go nuts, throw in some twiddles.
Lots of people say they wish they'd learned
an instrument when they were young.
Did you know Mozart didn't start playing music
until he was 25?
Now that's a total lie, but if you've got
time to watch youtube videos, you've got time to start learning an instrument. If you want to.
There's a little starter playlist down below
if you're interested for anything you want to learn.
It's never too late.
Unless you're dead.
Then it might be too late.
Finally build to the climax to fortissimo, the
loudest you can go, repeating the same melody,
keeping the original chord sequence, throw in a few sharps and flats for fun
And...
*Glass breaks*
Oppa!
===================================

Title: How You're Probably Going to Die

The most common cause of death is called dying,
and it kills about 55 million of us each year.
That’s about one South Africa or two hundred
star destroyers.
And good news, it's your turn next because
you've just become a competitor in the suicide
Olympics.
Bet you didn't even know that was a thing,
eh?
The rules of the suicide Olympics are as follows:
First place goes to whoever gets themselves
killed in the most unlikely or unusual fashion,
okay?
The winner gets a bilion dollars.
Now this isn't Zimbabwe dollars or something,
this is hard, American moolah.
Obviously if you win, you're dead, so you
don't get the money personally.
Your family does.
So, let's just pretend you give a shit about
your family for a minute.
The twist is that it has to be an accident.
You can't set it up in advance.
So no flying a kite in a lightning storm or
playing whose gun is it anyway with a policeman
or something, it has to be an accident out
of your control.
Now, if like me, you're balls to the wall
scared of flying you might think hey that's
easy, I'll just fly crappy airlines, and wait
for something to go wrong, right?
Yyeeeeeeno.
The odds of being in a fatal plane crash are
about 1 in eleven million meaning if you flew
every single day you've need to live about
30,000 years to actually get into an accident.
So that's not gonna butter any parsnips is
it?
Well, next best thing, become an astronaut.
That's about a 1 in 100 chance of dying on
launch, that sounds a lot better, but considering
you'll need at least a master's degree, practically
perfect health, and testicles made entirely
of steel, maybe that might be a bit of a challenge.
All right?
Bungee jumping – 1 in 100,000
Mountain climbing?
Mm, about 1 in 1700.
Yeah, but in Nepal?
how about 1 in 160.
Actually, if you get above 6000m it's more
like 1 in 10.
Oh holla, now we're talking.
But maybe you think that's cheating.
Normal people don't climb mountains.
How about travel instead?
About 1000 people are killed each year in
Mexico by scorpions,
15,000 people are killed in India every year
by snakes,
Or move to Africa.
That's a hippo.
Intimidating it isn't.
Well yes it is actually.
Hyppos belong from the pachyderm family, which
is in fact latin, for murder cow and during
a particularly bad year they can kill around
3000 people.
But still your best chance of dying is probably
just to....live?
Because we suck at it.
Last century about a hundred million people
were killed by tobacco.
Likewise, if you're fat, pardon me, a person
of weight, well, obesity killed about 300,000
people in the US last year.
88,000 died by booze related stuff.
Several hundred thousand to drug abuse,
And on top of that, cancer kills about 1 in
7 of us,
Heart disease kills about half that,
A stroke gets 1 in 23.
All of this proving that probably everything
your scared of is very unlikely to actually
kill you.
Chances are your death is going to be incredibly
boring . So, chin up, eh?
Actually, while we're at it, what about the
odds of you just being born to begin with?
Well, according to Dr. Ali Binazir who did
the math on this one, pretty like low?
Assuming your parents socialised like
normal humans, The probability of them meeting
was about 1 in 20,000
The odds that they even have a kid, given
global trends?
About 1 in 2,000
Now assuming they did meet, and your mum thought
your dad wasn't a jerk, and he managed to
ignore the fact that she considered the star
wars prequels better than the originals, and
they actually did the sexy times, the
odds that you would be born, of that sperm
hooking up with that egg – in particular
are about 1 in 400.
Quadrillion.
And that's not even the half of it, because before
the egg, before your mum and dad met,
there is of course all of
your ancestors who also had to get laid, and
just taking that about 100,000 generations
back, we're talking about 10 to the power
of 45,000 that they would all meet, but now
we have to calculate the odds of every single
one of those 100,000 meetings between your
ancestors would work out, and those sperms
and eggs would match up, well that comes out
at about 1 in ten to the power of 2,640,000
which is a number so big you can't even, well
you know like a bag of m&ms?
Well, it's a few trillion of those.
Timesed by all the particles in the universe.
Multipled by Jabba the hut's waist measurement.
With a cherry on top.
It's big all right.
All in all, flying is pretty safe, your death
is going to be boring, and your birth was
rarer than a fucking mewtwo
Au Revoir
===================================

Title: An Open Letter from Exurb1a to YouTube

Hi, Youtube just a quick note from a relatively small channel. Couldn't help notice you've started punishing content creators by restricting advertising on anything that
Might be Vulgar or sexually suggestive. Just wanted to say it's about time and channels making content like that can suck a dick
The only reason YouTube got so big was because it was television, but without the censorship
It seems like a great idea to now turn the [platform] into a safe advertising space free of anything outrageous like humor wit
Controversy or fun hopefully you can drive all the big creators away by Christmas, anyway
I'm off to start shooting a makeup tutorial shit balls horse minge. Love and kisses xavier
===================================

Title: Why is the Milk Gone?

Motherfuc-
Why is the milk gone?
Well because you forgot to buy milk, alright?
And why did you forget to buy milk?
Well.
That's an interesting question.
See you were gonna some on the way
home yesterday but then you remembered
you had to get some bread as well so you went to the bread aisle.
However the alcohol aisle was on the way to the bread aisle so you went there first because
recently you've been doing quite a lot of drinking alone (if by recently you mean the
last 12 years) and they had this new 45% bourbon which was pretty cool, which you bought and
then forgot to buy milk.
So really the milk is gone because of whisky.
But really you only went to buy whisky because it's kind of been a cloudy day and you wanted
to cheer yourself up a bit.
And it's only really been a cloudy day because of temperature differential over the balkan
peninsula, brought on by east moving winds and pressure fluctuations.
So really the milk is gone because of the weather.
But the weather is only really there because of the atmosphere which formed about 4 billion
years ago, as a result of gas escaping from the Earth's interior.
So the milk is gone because of the Earth.
But the Earth is only really there because a gas cloud condensed into the sun and the solar
system a few billion ago.
And all of that came from the big bang, billions of years before that. So really the milk is
gone because space and time materialized out of apparently nothing... 14 billion years ago.
And if that's true did the universe know 14 billion years ago that if she exploded, formed
into galaxies and stars and they gave rise to planets and the planets developed ecosystems,
single celled life, complex organisms, humans,
human society, domestication of cows,
the invention of coffee, milk in coffee, fridges
and finally you, that you that you would eventually
run out of milk, fourteen billion years later?
Well... maybe.
If you're playing pool or snooker or whatever
and you hit the ball at a certain angle at
a certain speed, if you have a good enough
computer you could say exactly where the balls
are going to go, right?
It's all predetermined.
If you took exactly the same shot a thousand
times the balls would do the same thing a
thousand times.
Well, if the big bang happened a thousand
times over just the way it did 14 billion
years would you run out of milk a thousand
times 14 billion years later?
And doesn't that mean you entire life is already
determined, like the date of your birth and
death was already predicted the moment the
universe came into being and everything has
to happen in a certain order, just that way,
just like a pool game?
No, definitely not.
We've got free will, right?
I mean, just because the universe is made
of atoms bumping into each other that have
to act in a certain way based on what happened
before and just because your brain is made
of atoms that have to do the same thing and
it's all part of the same system, you can
still just decide to do stuff, right?
 
 
Because otherwise we're just balls in a cosmic
game of pool with no free will at all...meaning
we're just robots caught in a deterministic
system with just an illusion of choice but
really having no control whatsoever over our
own lives deluding ourselves into thinking
we're somehow different to all the other atoms
in the universe and that would mean you've
never made a real choice and you never will
and whatever you decide to do next in life
isn't a decision at all but was always going
to happen and there's no point to ever doing
anything ever again because everything was
predecided at the beginning of time and life
is completely meaningless and empty and – fuck it 
black coffee is fine.
===================================

Title: Continue to Next Level?

We are rather clever little machines.
If you throw in enough food and leave us a
while eventually you get language, the printing
press, moon landings, instant mash potato,
and Debbie Does Dallas
This is thanks to a nifty piece of hardware
called brain.
It weighs about 5 percent of your body but
takes in 20 percent of your calories.
Anyway, there is a problem.
The software keeps getting updated every few
years thanks to culture, but the hardware
is exactly the same as it was back when we
were savages.
Upgrades to the human CPU take about a few
hundred thousand years even for small bug
fixes because evolution is very very slow.
But these restrictions might all be about to change in
our lifetime and here’s why.
Quick version:
This is Ray Kurzweil.
He's a smart guy.
He's invented lots of stuff you've probably
used yourself, and has written a bunch of books.
Now, he thinks human technology is getting
better exponentially.
That means it's not getting better year by
year, it's doubling at how much better it's
getting as it goes on.
So, if it keeps up at this rate he thinks, this century, we're
going to get to a thing called the singularity.
It's a word borrowed from physics and it basically
means that there will be a point when technology
is improving so fast, you can't even begin
to imagine what the near future will look
like.
Rational Minibreak:
Before we get deeper into this, let's just
admit that if there's one thing we're worse
at than not murdering each other it's predicting
the future.
If you told a victorian that in about 100
years we'd all have this communications thing
in our pockets that gives you access to all
human knowledge they might've said “Flaming
tallywags, tell what do you use it for?”
And if you're going to answer honestly, you'll
say porn and cats.
And quite a lot more porn than cats.
In other words, we always expect utopia is
coming and what we usually get is smarter
ways to do stupid stuff we've always been
doing.
Anyway, let's imagine Ray Kurzweil is right
and the singularity has happened.
Technology is improving so quickly we can't
keep up with it.
What does the world look like?
Well, maybe we can answer that with an acronym:
GRAIN.
This stands for genetics, robotics, AI, and
nanotechnology, and even if only one of these
really takes off, that might mean the end of humanity
as we know it.
So, for example if genetics gets pretty good,
we're might start redesigning humans.
That means possibly removing stuff like mental
illness, designer babies or splitting into
thousands of different species of humans.
It may've already started.
There's a very strange new technique called
Crispr which means we might soon starting
editing the genes of human embryos.
Please go and watch Kurzgesagt's video  for a good explanation.
Or there’s robotics, which could revolutionise
agriculture, and again humans.
O
Hey there.
Having trouble lifting stuff?
Yeah, I am actually.
How about robot arms?
Pretty cool eh?
Yeah, amazing!
Thanks!
And those legs look a bit tired.
Need an upgrade?
Oh, yes please.
Abracadabra, robot legs.
Wow, that's awesome!
And are you tired of those silly biological
genitals?
What?
No, I like my genitals.
Please don't touch my genit
We can cut that little fella off in a second.
Hey presto, robot schlong
Aahhhhhhhhhhhhhh
Or artificial intelligence might get big,
but I think we all know how that one might
pan out if it goes tits up.
Or nanotechnology.
Nanobots are little microscopic robots that
hopefully will perform all sorts of complicated
tasks and make copies of themselves.
Just a quick doomsday scenario for you, say
you make two nanobots, obviously they make
four in no time, then eight, then sixteen,
thirty two, sixty four, one hundred twenty
eight, until you could convert the entire
planet into nanomachines by the end of the
week.
And possibly, like, the universe a bit later?
So GRAIN, that’s the acronym to remember
and it might mean the end of the world as
we know it.
Some of these technologies are coming and
we’re going to put them in our bodies.
And if that happens to a large extent, are
we human?
Or are we dancer
This the neocortex cortex.
It seems to be the main part of the brain
that separates us from the rest of the mammals
as we have such a large one and it allows us
to reason in an abstract way.
Some people think what we’re doing with
our technology is kind of building another neocortex
but made of silicon.
We've already started outsourcing our brains
to our technology.
When and IFFFF devices start being implanted
inside the brain, it isn't technology anymore,
it might be the next step in the evolution
of life itself.
And the humans using that technology won't
be humans anymore in the traditional sense.
We will have started on our journey up the
intelligence ladder to the next step in our
development.
Or nothing might happen and the future will be incredibly boring. But that seems unlikely. All right, real talk for a minute.
We're probably mostly wrong about what the
future will look like.
We usually are.
But if only 5% of this stuff happens , IF,
it will be bigger than the printing press,
than the internet, bigger than fire even. And
it might mean extinction or the birth of a
new species of human but one thing is for
sure. If it happens, we'll get to see the
beginning of it at least.
We might already be watching it without realising.
There's no telling what we're going to turn
ourselves into but there's every reason to
think it's part of a natural process.
Just because it's technology that we're going
to use to evolve this time, doesn't mean it
wasn't always going to happen.
This might be how species develop in the universe,
first through biology, then through technology
and then something else entirely maybe.
The future we live in today was unimaginable
to our ancestors but at least we're the same
species as them.
Tomorrow's humans might be not be the same
species, and stranger than that, they might
look back on our situation with the same regard
we give to primates or even single celled life.
life. Genetics, robotics, AI, and nanotechnology and whatever else we invent, might rewrite the rules of biology.
Every step we've taken has been on the outside
so far, exploring our planet, exploring the
universe.
It’s different this time.
This might be the first adventure that goes
inwards instead.
But we have a lot of bosses to beat before
we can get to the next level.
We’ve got doomsday weapons, deadly contagions,
possible climate catastrophe, political tensions
and god knows what else.
But if we make it through all that, if we
turn into whatever new species we're going
to become, it's probably going to be incredible.
Our descendants might one day look back on this
century and think how amazing it was that
considering how violent and stupid we were
sometimes, that we managed to do so much with so
little, and that in spite of all the odds
against us, we survived anyway and turned
into something better and wiser, whatever
that happens out to be.
===================================

Title: A Tour of Academia

Oh hi.
Welcome to Academia.
Let's take a quick look around.
One of oldest and most famous cities in Academia
is called philosophy.
Most of the people there spend their time
writing papers, going to conferences, or ending
up as baristas.
That was a joke obviously.
No one in philosophy gets invited to conferences.
Now, if you head east across unemployable
mountain, you eventually get to Physics and
Math.
Now you probably want to visit these if you're
interested in numbers, precision, and a lifetime of
sexual abstinence.
Both have their own neighbourhoods, of course.
I'd recommend the quantum district but just
be aware they've got a bit of a thing for
murdering cats, whatever that's all about.
Maths has its own weird parts of town, P and
NP who are kind of at war at the moment.
There's also Geometry Island which is basically
just lines.
Several hours dive away is astronomy, but
I'd give it a miss.
Bit of a black hole if you know what I mean.
Engineering is quite nice, but they haven't
really contributed much recently though to
be honest, just.. bridges, dams, turbines.
Oh and planes obvously.
And rockets.
And space stations, petroleum,,
motors, telecommunications, electronics,,
and the industrial
revolution.
Let's be honest, bunch of lazy pricks.
If you have a bit of extra time, just over
Humanities River is literature, take a walk
round the Russian neighbourhoods, their police
department is excellent, everyone's obsessed
with Crime and Punishment.
The American district is all right too, the
weather's pretty brutal during the day but
Tender is the Night, and the British section
isn't bad but just don't go in with any great
expectations, eh?
Just a few miles east is History.
Now they're good people, but they do seem
to hang onto the past a bit.
Jesus just let it go guys, all right.
Linguistics is currently off limits at the
moment with an outbreak of irritable vowel
syndrome.
But West Chomsky is very nice, lovely gnomes.
A few miles away there's the gender studies waterfall.
They're usually quite pushy about everyone
checking their sunscreen.
And their privilege.
Just over Sarkeesian canyon we find education
I'd be very careful about visiting unless
you're a fan of  incompetant idiot midgets.
I believe they're commonly referred to as
children.
Psychology is an up and coming city, I'd recommend
the Odeipus Rex district which is full of
milfs, Skinner Island, but just be sure to
watch your behaviour, and the Milgram quarter,
but I'd avoid that one unless you want quite a
shock.
And then there's there's sociology where everyone
is so advanced that that they've stopped believing in
stupid old fashioned
concepts like “proof”
Anthropology which is full of stalkers,
Theology, but Jesus Christ, those guys work
religiously,
Economics.
There's supposedly treasure buried somewhere.
I don't know.
I guess X Marx the spot
Medicine, where the local pastime is being
sued for trying to help people
Communication studies is a nice little break,
be sure to give it your full attention and have
a proper gander.
Law is lovely.
You can take a left at smallprint avenue,
a right onto litigation street, straight up
matrimonial highway and yeah, by the time
you reach the fountain you'll find yourself
bankcrupt and paying for your ex's lawyer.
Back over unemployable mountain, just past
film studies I'd advise finishing off your
trip with a visit to the Performing Arts,
where the inhabitants are lovely, by my god
do they make a song and dance of everything.
Now the geology of Academia is quite interesting.
There are undergraduates at the top,
Then a sub layer of postgrads who have been
severely crushed by geological pressure.
And life,
And finally the PHDs and staff who exist in
a constant state of stress and have been turned
into human magma.
You'll know you've reached this level when
you notice something wet and soggy draining
out of your ear one day and realise it's your
soul.
So if all that sounds up your street, why
not visit academia yourself?
I only came to avoid getting a real job and
I've been trapped here for 9 years.
Did I say trapped?
I meant, having a lovely time.
It's like prison but the
sex isn't as regular.
===================================

Title: A Song About Rockets

It started out in China in the early thirteen hundreds when they stumbled upon gunpowder (was probably by accident) [and] mostly would just use
It for their fireworks and weapons then it took five Mormon centuries for us to give a **** again
A little Later Isaac
Newton worked out how the planets stay in orbit around the sun
And how the galaxies all got that way maybe we can use the stuff for getting to the Moon one day?
But chill out mate that's still [200] years and one U.S. away, but no one really knew if you could breathe outside the atmosphere
So maybe it'd be smarter if we all just played it safe down here. Nah screw It Let's go
Do it space is taunting us and Mars looks pretty dope
The Rockets back then in the 1900s were all solid fuel and Robert goddard came up with a three-stage plan to upgrade all combustion chamber
So they were much smaller, but more powerful and everyone was like yeah, yeah, but that's just plain impractical
It wasn't because that kick-started a turning point in rocketry in other worlds at war and we're all after new technology was this being used most notably by Germany
To land people in London in the graveyard and infirmary but world war [two] is over now
And everybody's eager to snap up the german scientists who pioneered the first V2 especially America who wanted to get humans into space
But then most rockets ran on Liquid [fuels] bought the bonus of them complex thrust adjustment and mass ratio or lack thereof America adopted these improvements
Then largely because Russia's getting pushy with their Star Nerd [Sergei] [Korolev]
He gives the soviets a Rocket modeled on the Reich's
V2 then spent some time in prison where he masterminds program to get people into orbit, but first animals make their debut
Woof woofski comrade laika cheers to you and [russian] the us Meanwhile trying to beat them sending humans into space
Whoever wins will celebrate with bill borscht in any case And Nasa is doing pretty good with von Braun helping out with German Smarts
Right about then Russia's time for rocketry is finally here in 1961 Yuri Gagarin left the atmosphere
Returned to Earth as someone future astronauts would soon revere
Too bad he died soon after in a jet crash [Sorry!]
America was soon to follow after with their own attempts and alan Shepard flew freedom 7 free of accidents
Though russia watch for vodka smokes and no doubt lashings of contempt
Now it's the u.s.'s turn for spacey tries at brave pre-empts
hey what's the big enormous white thing floating in the sky at night. Let's go see if that cures our frightful scientific appetite
Hey JFK stop riding around in open motorcades oh Jesus Christ!
America was sad, but the space race continued resolute then more disasters followed due to fire and twisted parachute Apollo 8 went great
[but] didn't plan to did a [lunar] loop right moon, How's it going? BRB
We're going to walk on you
Then one year later Armstrong and buzz aldrin touch the lunar floor and mankind was united in a global truce
Forevermore my god we're all so tiny and what's all this fighting even for I?
Fuck it back to work
Hey
Russia when's the next atomic war there five more missions landed on the moon and made it back again ignoring the [Thirteenth] which suffered something
Of an accident and good news, Nasa all fundings cut so like no more spacing about for a bit
And that was the last time humans ever left earth orbit, so, that's good
Isn't it we've got plenty more important things to be doing like walking around collecting
Imaginary Japanese water demons on our phone very crucial to our species development
Team mystic represent by the way will bathe in the blood of our enemies
So now the u.s. Took the moon the russians cannot barely wait to get ahead or leave a legacy behind at any rate
Let's launch a bunch of space stations, then goodbye to the soviet state the iss was next up there and now we all collaborate
to explore the planets near and far
We mostly just use probes these days because space is kind of dangerous and full of deadly Cosmic Rays and human
explorations cool but probes are cheap and patience pays
and Juneau is now in Jupiter, but Mars gets or the Twitter praise well
Hopefully, we'll colonize the solar system sometime soon and take ourselves a greater or hovel on a martian moon lets pray
We just stay cool 'cause Total Recall didn't look much fun at all
Nasa's Budgets pretty small
But now there's a new
substitute because private
Corporations help our astronauts with their commute that's one small step for man next time it might be with a nikey boot and Elon Musk's
a cooler Tony stark with out the robot suit
We're doubtless
[let's] just beginning on our Journey on Beyond the skies for perils and delights my mind waves take us by surprise a message to our grandchildren
Let's hope you're more evolved and wise
But most of all good luck cause  heaven knows you'll fucking need it guys.
 
===================================

Title: England: A Beginner's Guide

When you arrive in England, there should
be a bus or train line you can catch
from the airport to your hotel.
Getting from one side of London to the other should cost you
no more than your entire life savings and firstborn child.
If possible try not to eat the food.
If you really must then your safest bet is
battered swan, chicken pyramid, or tea pie,
which is a π  with "T" in it.
English people split off from their human
ancestors around a million years ago,
evolving into Homo Cynicus.
The English brain is divided into two hemispheres,
the left which produces feelings of
shame and self-loathing,
and the right which produces feelings of
shame and self-loathing
Please be aware that there are a number of differences between international English and British English.
The Chip is called a "Crisp".
The Trunk is called a "Boot".
And buying over 50 pounds worth of shopping
just to mask the fact
that where you went into the shop for is condoms
is called "Perfectly normal behaviour".
Try not to say anything directly to an
English person but imply it instead.
For example whereas someone outside of England might remark "This literally tastes like excrement."
in England we would usually say "That was
delicious, compliments to the chef."
Then returned to the restaurant several days
later and burn it down without warning.
Also if you must express romantic feelings,
please do it either by text message or smoke signals,
as affection was made illegal in 1893.
And frankly we're all quite glad about that.
English families are among some of the
most sophisticated in the world.
At the age of 18, the oldest male child of the family
is expected to fight his father to the death
to gain control of the household.
It is permitted to use siblings and
family pets as weaponry
If there's one thing we do well, it's the
naming of our towns and cities.
And upon visiting England, you would be
silly to miss such idyllic spots as
Grimsby, Skegness and Little Arsintgon.
English people socialize in a number of
creative ways.
Mondays through Thursdays, 
we usually joust on horses,
or British jumbo cats.
Friday's we drink port, and look very intensely of pictures of award-winning film and theatre actress Rachel Weisz
Saturdays is for publicly executing people
who don't say thank you when you
hold the door open for them.
And sundays is for walking our dogs
or looking at more pictures of award-winning film
and theatre actress Rachel Wei--
If an English person appears upset
it's very important you insist they talk
about their emotions.
There is nothing we love more than our deepest insecurities being forced out of us and made public
If at a party, try to force an English
person into publicly speaking
or make them the center of attention somehow.
Guarantee they will pay you back in 
years to come with a gentle smile.
or a Molotov cocktail through 
your window at 3 in the morning :)
Sexual etiquette can sometimes be confusing to
foreigners, but the process is rather simple:
Step 1, if you find someone attractive, it's very
important you completely ignore or insult them.
Step 2, both parties will then drink at least 3 bottles of wine each, and the act of mating can commence.
Keep in mind however that the act of mating is only permitted once a year on the 6th February,
also known as Leg Over Day.
This is not to be confused with St. Fapius Day,
which is quite a different event indeed ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
The Act should be performed
in absolute darkness,
and in extreme cases can last upwards
of two and a half minutes.
At no point should be eye contact or enjoyment
Or the police may be summoned to the premises.
Once the act has concluded, both parties should
then marry, and move into a shared castle.
though given the recent state of the economy,
a potting shed is also acceptable.
The national dish of England is called
Beer.
Many people believe the majority of us spend
our time eating cucumber sandwiches
and discussing literature.
While this is true, we've recently invented
a number of other delightful pastimes,
such as football hooliganism, knife crime,
and the British spider fighting championships.
The national sport of England is called Football.
Now, a lot of non-European seemed confused about the rules, so let's just clear this up, shall we.
There are 22 men. Now whoever gets the
most goals wins.
But if the chaser gets the snitch then that's game over.
2 goals is called an Earl Grey,
3 is John Thomas, and Iceland can suck a fat one
England retained complete sovereignty
throughout the years
And was at no point invaded and conquered repeatedly by the Roman, Vikings, Scottish or French.
It is a little known fact that the English actually
invented a number of popular items today
Including the toothbrush, the jet engine,
and the gallbladder.
Modern England was born in 1508 when Jonah Fuzzwasles defeated the Ollard Thrubwoballz
and decreed that from then on,
math will be spelt with an 's',
everyone would drive on the left,
and if someone buys you a round
at the pub, it's not a gift.
You're expected to do the same for
everyone at some point,
or you're being what we call in England "A right dick"
It rains a lot, but the people are all right.
I don't even live there anymore.
Goodbye.
♪
plop.
===================================

Title: Terra

it was a Sunday a normal one and without
warning 15 huge saucers appeared from the clouds
and hovered above 15 capital
cities
no one went to work and everyone watched their television and waited to see what
would happen next
nothing happened next the saucers were
silent sitting on the air doing nothing
at all not even wobbling
not really we tried to say hello in
every language we knew in Swahili in
Spanish or Morse code and binary and
still the saucers were quiet on the
second day we flew drones up close and
found they were made of a metal we had
never seen before and hovered by a method so clever it may as well have been magic
by the third day a few of us were
getting cocky and got close enough to
take selfies and we shouted up through
megaphones sorry,
what are you doing here? and the saucers stayed silent sitting on the air
doing nothing at all not even wobbling
and finally without warning around dinner time
a great booming voice came over
the world and the saucers said
Terrr-rrraa. sorry, we said, come again?
Terrr-rrraa ... Terra? we said and the saucers were
silent. terra thought the linguists: Latin
for Earth
maybe it's a greeting of some kind.
terror thought the religious: Roman goddess
maybe she's back and she's angry.
terror thought the militaries add an -ism to the
end and we've got a big problem
by the fourth day saucerism was a
world religion and some of us wore
little spaceships around our necks and
began building churches Britain hold a
referendum to see if the saucers should
leave or stay and the Prime Minister
resigned. by the fifth day we went back
to work and economies ticked over, the
world went on as normal except for the
15 huge saucers which were perfectly
silent, sitting on the air,
doing nothing at all, not even wobbling,
not really. and on the sixth day the
government's and monarchies had enough
and prime ministers and presidents and
queens and despots came onto the lawns of
their palaces and offices and looked up
at the sources and said: what do you want?
why are you here? and the saucers said
nothing for a moment and then came the
reply:
Terrr - rrraa,
they said, terrr - rrraa. a global state of
emergency was declared. they're obviously
hostile, America said, we should build a
wall to keep the saucers out until we
figure out what this is all about.
we disagree, replied Russia, we should annex them and then claim they were our
saucers all along.
this is outrageous, Britain said, we frown
on violence of any kind.
right, America said, but what if there is a
slim to impossible chance they might
have weapons of mass destruction?
we've changed our minds let's invade
immediately! now just calm down,
norway said, there's no reason to be
violent maybe they're telepathic or
something we don't even know what their
intentions are. Norway is right,
Russia said, we should use nuclear weapons!
what? that's literally the opposite of
what we just suggested! we agree with
Norway, Britain said. and us!
germany said. what the fuck is wrong with
you? norway said, there's no reason to be
violent yet we don't even know what
they're going to... well, we disagree,
russia said, what are you going to do to
stop us? yeah, said France,
what are you going to do about it? now
look, sweden said, this is all getting a
bit tense
we don't need to do anything rash! so you
want a war as well, huh? Britain said.
n-no, Sweden replied, we'll just be
quietly sitting over here until all this is
over.
I say we get rid of Norway, France
whispered, then we fire on the saucers!
what's that? norway said. we were just
asking if anyone has seen Emily recently
don't bob haircuts look good on French
women? right...
norway said, so it's going to be like that,
is it? the war lasted just over five
minutes and ended in complete global
destruction
those that survived ceased by coming
radiation poisoning and a nuclear winter
descended on the world blocking out the
Sun. cities were former shadows of
themselves
nothing but rubble remained. and through
the rubble came the call of the wind and
cockroaches listened to the wind and
survived and busied about below and all the
while the saucers waited above sitting
on the air
doing nothing at all not even wobbling
not really and finally the great voice
came again
terrr - rrraa,
it said, Terrr - rrraa, terr..ribly sorry to bother
you, our translation software is broken
could you point the way to Andromeda?
hello.........?
helllloooo.......?
they're awfully quiet, aren't they? Oh, they're
probably just shy..
hey, what was with all those explosions?
dunno maybe they were having a party..
yeah maybe maybe it was a party..
ohhh, we 've fucking done it again
===================================

Title: Britain Leaving the EU - For and Against

In just under a week there's going to be a referendum on whether the UK stays in or leaves Europe.
Luckily the issue is pretty simple on both sides.
Oh wait. It isn't.
It's insanely complicated and it's probably the most important decisionthat's been made in a generation of British life.
It's called the British exit - or Brexit, which sounds sort of like a quirky organic cereal.
So here's a cheeky little overview of what's been going on recently in "tea-ville".
To get elected last year,
the British prime Minister David Cameron had to promise that he would let the British people decide if we stay in the EU or not.
Unfortunately for him, he now has to make good on that promise.
And here we are.
Depending on which way the vote goes, we either keep strumming our Uk-EU-leles
or use the Emergency Brexit and go our own way.
The problem is that the Brexit is an absolute gang bang of special interests.
Politicians are politicians and are getting donations from people with a vested interest in leaving or staying;
Business is business and wants to make money;
And then there's us - the plebs - trying to make sense of this stuff and vote sensibly.
There are millions of arguments about what to do,
so we're going to stick to the five most common ones on each side and go from there.
There are two camps: the Euroskeptics and the Euro supporters.
First then the Euroskeptics.
Here are some reasons why the Euroskeptics want to leave the EU.
1. Free movement
If you're a member of a country in the European union,
you can work wherever you like and move around freely without a visa.
Euroskeptics are pretty annoyed about this and often argue that the UK is being flooded with immigrants
who are using welfare without justification or flooding the economy with cheap labour.
They argue that there are countries like Australia and Canada who already have tight border control.
So why can't the UK do the same?
2. EU regulations.
Euroskeptics were also pretty worried about the EU parliament.
The EU parliament can now create laws that have to be obeyed in the UK
without going through the UK Parliament.
There are also a bunch of officials in the European parliament who aren't actually elected.
Lots of people are worried this is the beginning of the end for UK sovereignty.
3. Integration
Lots of the EU already use the Euro
and it's obviously moving towards becoming a kind of super country in its own right.
Euroskeptics obviously don't want that to happen.
Europe is also talking about getting its own army, which some Brits are quite alarmed about.
4. Economic independence
Lots of people argue that the UK can stand on its own two feet and doesn't need to trade inside the EU.
The commonwealth is still a thing and some economists argue that this could easily sustain us as well as other markets.
So why bother being part of the EU?
5. Euro Euro bills, y'all!
The EU pays somewhere around 12 billion a year to remain a member of the EU
which lots of people think is a bit steep considering we don't even get a loyalty card or a free hat.
If we pull out we also won't have to abide by European economic regulations,
we'll be a completely separate economy from the EU
and there is an argument that we might prosper as a result of that.
In other words: Brits or GTFO.
For those reasons - and lots of others -
some brits think pulling out will hopefully restore former glory, tighter borders and greater Sovereignty to our Island nation.
However, as some of us may know too well already, pulling out isn't always a reliable method.
And that's where the other side comes in: the Pro-European argument.
Here are some arguments from Brits who want to stay in the EU:
1. Employment.
Around 3.5 million jobs might depend on being in the EU.
And if we leave, lots of manufacturers might just go abroad.
Also around 10% of the UK's gross National value comes from the financial Sector,
despite the fact that is full of complete and utter bankers.
2. Research and funding
Plenty of top scientists in Britain come from elsewhere in Europe.
This might change in a big way if we leave.
Also the UK receives a fair bit of money from the EU for research funding and this could vanish and impact Academia.
3. Security
Yes, once we had an Empire, but these days we just sit around watching reruns of Fawlty Towers,
reminiscing about the good old days of "Oh, terribly sorry to bother you, is this your country?
Oh, good. Could we have it, please? No?
Yoink!
Global politics is changing. Certain leaders of very powerful nations...
...are getting a bit bossy.
And there're also nuclear rogue states with itchy trigger fingers.
Some Brits argue pulling out is silly when we could be militarily stronger
for sticking it out with Germany and France and the rest of the EU.
4. Emigration, but from the other side.
For those Brits who live in other EU countries, they may have to go home
or at least get married pretty quickly if we leave the EU.
Also, if the economy goes tits up again, it means as a British citizen
you won't just be able to swan off to some other country in the EU and start over.
5. Multinational corporations
Every year these corporations do something horrific and the EU generally steps in and finds their asses.
If the UK switches to single player mode, then there's the possibility it could be pushed around a lot more by the likes of certain big financial players.
Anyway, that's about 0.5% of all the arguments out there, but you get the idea.
Right now British television is a montage of people screaming at each other
and it's almost impossible to take a definitive position.
The Euroskeptics argue that this might be the only chance we have to leave Europe and we need to seize it now.
The Pro-Europeans argue that leaving Europe could be a death blow to the economy
and to Britain in general that we never truly recover from.
And either position might be correct.
No one knows what's going to happen next but whatever it is is going to be pretty Bloody historic.
So happy voting and no pressure!
It's only the future of our entire country and our great-great grandchildren that we're deciding.
Cheerio!
===================================

Title: Theories of Everything

There's still a holy grail that scientists are searching for and it's called a theory of everything.
What is a theory of everything? Well...
This is General Relativity and Quantum Field Theory. Both are good descriptions of the universe
but they don't match up. Which is weird because they both describe the same universe.
Or if you put them together you get a message from the universe to physicists trying to understand it:
''God Recommends You Quit Fucking Trying''
General Relativity is the brainchild of Einstein, the king of science himself, and more or less says that gravity is
a geometric property of space and time. Meaning space and time can also be distorted. For more information see black holes, high speeds, and pot brownies.
Quantum Field Theory on the other hand, describes the very little world of the subatomic and says that particles are what you get when you excite fields.
Humans like describing complex phenomena with models.
We did it with economics and computer science
and the British political system...
The Dream™, is to finally do it in physics with relativity and quantum mechanics
and get them to take their clothes off together and get their freak on. This would revolutionize science.
However there are some serious compatibility issues and lots of the problems come from the Standard Model.
Last week we touched on the Standard Model
Which is a pretty nifty description of how matter works.
But there is still some outstanding homework to be done by humanity.
Firstly: Symmetry. Normally nature is a pretty classy girl
but in this case she's gone all loosey-goosey. Almost everything in nature is
symmetrical when we look deeply enough into her( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)
or ''it'', rather.
This can be seen from honeycombs, to galaxies to the first very good seasons of Dexter to the *other ones*
However physics is currently not very symmetrical and we don't know why.
Problem ''deux'':  Dark matter.  The universe is behaving a bit oddly at the moment and while
it seems overweight when it gets on the scales, we can't seem to find all that extra mass anywhere.
This is where dark matter comes in which is an invisible mystery ingredient, that the Standard Model currently can't explain.
Thirdly: Gravity - we all know it exists.
(Especially my ex-girlfriend)
(HORROR SCREAM)
*crash*
But the Standard Model currently takes the approach of ''Lalalalalala gravitons maybe, don't want to talk about it. Oh look. A kestrel''
(BIRD SQUAWKS)
What we need, is a theory of everything that explains gravity and dark matter and reunites relativity with quantum mechanics and does a little
backflip for a cheeky encore. Here are some delicious theory of everything recipes that scientists have tried so far.
Recipe one: String theory cake. To bake a string theory cake you will need:
Several kilograms of scientific optimism, a jar of hidden spatial dimensions and a sprinkle of supersymmetry. The basic idea is this:
Just like the strings of a violin can play lots of different notes
particles may be made of common objects, called ''strings''. If they vibrate at different frequencies they create different particles.
(VIOLIN PLAYS NOTES)
One of them may even be a graviton, finally explaining what gravity actually is.
(EXCITED VIOLIN)
However, string theory wasn't happy with the usual missionary position, of three dimensions of space and one dimension of time that we're used to.
No - In some versions she needs 26 dimensions to make the maths work.
Anything else we can get for you String Theory, cup of tea, massage, fucking private jet, you insufferable diva??
Recipe number two: Loop quantum gravity cake. Combine a little self raising flour with the tears of Michio Kaku and voilá!
Loop quantum gravity is string theory's slightly more awkward, but still very clever, main competitor.
If gravity really is a property of space-time, like some scientists believe it is
*ahem-hem*
Instead space might be made of loops forming something called a ''spin foam''. And even though it doesn't explain everything yet
it does kind of explain gravity. So. You know. That's all right, isn't it?
Recipe three: Miscellaneous. There are plenty of other theories of everything such as:
Causal Dynamical Triangulation, which divides space-time into dinky little triangles and solves a number of problems that way.
Or Modified Newtonian Dynamics, which tries to explain dark matter away, by sitting Isaac Newton down and giving him a stern talking-to.
Or the E8 Model, which is very pretty geometric explanation for how all particles interact with each other.
And finally, Recipe number four: Shut up, no cake for you. Also known as Gödel's Incompleteness Theorem.
Mathematician Kurt Gödel decided to give everyone the finger in 1931, by pointing out that no system of mathematics is self contained.
Or, to put it another way, if you have any arithmetic in a system
there'll be things you can never ever prove for certain. That might mean, according to Gödel, that we can
have a true theory of everything, so thanks for that.
Dick.
Anyway, these are all fun ideas.
But maybe none of them are correct and the real answer will turn up unexpectedly one day.
With very little warning. At a totally inappropriate moment without our permission.
Much like a certain Windows update, Microsoft, you bunch of total cun-
===================================

Title: The Universe in 4 Minutes

Alright, welcome to the universe.
We will start with Tyrion Lannister of physics -
The Planck Length
Which is the smallest thing you can sensibly talk about.
Probably...
Next stop - we will lose our subatomic partical virginity
and meet our first neutrino.
Dont worry, she's lovely
and she has a lots of friends.
There are around 65 billion of them passing through just 1 square cm of Earth every second.
Up next - we bump into quarks. These come in several flavours:
Up, Down, Strange, Charm, Top, Bottom and
Banana
These are about as close to the building blocks of nature as we have managed to get so far.
Next stop -  we get to the A-list celebritites of subatomic world
Derek Neutron and Barbara Proton
Usually they engage in three ways:
With Carmen Electron and a kinky arrangement  known as atoms
Funny thing about subatomical particles:
Sometimes they behave as waves,
other times as particles
Depending on how they are feeling and whether or not are they on their period
Which brings us to some more celebrities you have heard of
Such as Helium, Hydrogen, Carbon and Cesium
All of this stuff so far and everything in the universe
Is controlled by 4 forces:
The Strong Force, which generally binds quarks, protons and neutrons together.
Then there's weak force, which regulates radioactive decay.
The electromagnetic force, which holds atoms and molecules together
Basically...
And finally - gravity. He was the promiscuous hussie of physics and regulates everything else
Like universes.
But we'll get to there later
All the stuff is contained in a neat little package
called The Standard Model and is about as close to a theory of everything we've managed to get so far.
Generally, the little stuff comes under a title Quantum Physics
And a big stuff, to which we get to in a moment, is known as Relativistic Physics
Scientists are working very hard on getting the two of them to move in together
But currently they have severe commitment issues
A little further up we get to the code of life
Deoxyribonucleic acid, also known as
DNA (AAA!)
DNA is made of a sneeze called
ATCG
Or Adenine,  Thymine, Cytosine, Guanine
Depending on how these are arranged
You can get anything from Ebola virus to Papyrus, to the German Iris to Miley Cyrus
Up some more, we get the cells
Some top favourites including
Red Blood, White Blood, Dendritic and soft
The next level above that should be familiar
This is where we find raindrops, Blue Whales, hakisaks, Redtube, the human race
as well as Norway
Out a little further
Now we are looking down on all of human history
Including all of our insecurities, morgage repayments and ex-sexual partners
Which reminds me Natasha
You're a b*tch!
Moving on we get to the eight planets and 146 moons of our Solar system
which doesn't count Pluto
Because you are not a planet, Pluto
You are done mate!
It's over! Yeah.
Then there's the Sun, which is a four and a half billion year old burning ball of Hydrogen and Helium
Several billion years from now
The Sun will rage quit and turn into a red giant
Gobbling whatever is left of a planet by then
Out again, we find the Milky Way.
The Milky Way contains at least a
100 billion stars
Stars can be by themselves, or orbiting each other
called a Binary Star System
Or occasional group of three, which is called a Trinary/Ternary
Or Ménage a Star
And that's not all
There's also Nebulae, which is a little starry womb where a lots of stars are born
Moons, which either come from planets or are a random floating matter
And comets, meteors and a million other types of astronomical bodies
that there simply isn't time to talk about
At the center of our galaxy
And lots of other galaxies, are black holes
These are enourmous wells of gravity that suck matter in
And distort thyme (time)
Fun fact: If you'd hold your breath while falling into a black hole
You would die, obviously
And then there's the rest of the Universe
The Milky Way, our galaxy, is one of a list of hundred billion galaxies
Each one prettier than the last
Since there are a 100 billion galaxies with at least a 100 billion stars in them
That means there are at least
10 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 (do the math) stars
In the Universe
The Universe itself, as far as we are aware, is about 95 billion lightyears across
Or to put it in another way.
If you are travelling with the speed of light
300 000 kilometers per second
It would take you 95 000 000 000 years to get from one side to the other
Except for the fact that the Universe is expanding
And the expansion is getting faster
Which literally makes no sense
And a... yeah.
That's... that's about it really.
Oh! Except there might be
Parallel universes
And hidden dimensions of space
And we completely forgot about time
The Universe began, if you can call it that, about 14 billion years ago
The first few galaxies turned up a few hundred million years later.
A few hundred millions after that we get the Milky Way
Another few and you've got a very young Earth
Then oceans
Then life a bit later
Reptiles
Dinosaurs
Game over for dinosaurs.
Sorry chaps.
Evolution of hominids
And finally all of our bullsh*t
Here...
Or here
Or....
Here, maybe
it's...
It's kinda hard to tell, because we are so insignificant
Anyway
Nothing means anything and we all are going to die.
Bye then!
*Calming classical music playing*
===================================

Title: How Casual Sex Should Work

Good evening female human.
Good evening male human.
Do you visit this bar regularly?
No I'm from out of town.
Okay, I find you to be rather sexually appealing.
Would you consider coming home with me to copulate?
That is a kind offer, but unfortunately, I'm currently mating with another male human on a regular basis
Ah... This is no problem but I'm afraid
I must leave you now
as I would like to find a potential
sexual partner for this evening.
No problem at all. Good luck with your genitals.
Yes, and with yours, good night.
Good evening female human.
Good evening male human.
You strike me as rather aesthetically
pleasing. And I like your clothes also.
Thank you. You are aesthetically pleasing to me too.
Excellent. Are you currently engaging in coitus with any other man at this present time.
No I am not.
Exemplary. I enjoy the outdoors, rock music,
and I'm not a murderer.
Ah... I enjoy arts and classical music, 
and I'm also not a murderer
Superb. Evidently we have much in common.
Would you like to vacate the premises and engage in sexual contact in one of our respective dwellings.
Yes, that will be quite acceptable.
Good. Thank God we didn't have to spend hours of small talk pretending we weren't going to screw,
only to end up inevitably screwing several hours from now, which we both intended to happen anyway.
Yes, thank god. What a stupid world it would be
where people had to do that to get laid
Yes it would be.
[monotonous laughter]
Anyway let's bone.
===================================

Title: Genocide Bingo

Let's imagine that humans have just invented superintelligent
AI, so a computer that’s self aware and
very clever.
Well, that means it’s time to play one of my favourite
games,
Genocide Bingo
Rule 1 of Genocide Bingo is Don't win Genocide Bingo.
Rule 2 of Genocide Bingo is DON'T WIN GENOCIDE BINGO.
What kind of AI have we made then? Well, it's
sentient for starters. And it’s super duper clever,
probably a few million times smarter than
the entire combined human race. Which means
we should probably give it access to the internet.
Maybe it can find cures for new diseases or
solve political problems or whatever
and oh, you just won genocide bingo. AI just
vapourised humanity in a nuclear holocaust.
Good job, jerk.
The problem here is that self-awareness in
all species of mammals at least usually results
in a strong sense of self-preservation. Well,
an AI would be smart enough to know we could
turn it off whenever we wanted and it probably
wouldn't want to be turned off. And there's
a very effective way to stop that happening,
isn't that right Skynet.
But hang on, isn't this all a little pessimistic? Why would it want to wipe us
out because it's self aware? Can't it just
be chilled out and kind instead?
Oh like the kindness we show to species less
intelligent than us you mean? Om nom nom nom
nom.
There doesn’t seem to be much of a correlation
between intelligence and being nice. Dolphins
are pretty damn clever and they're one of
the only species who kill not just for food
but just because it's fun, apparently. More
intelligence doesn't always mean diplomacy and cuddles
but smarter ways to murder stuff. Why would
an AI think differently? Even if there's only
a slim chance it will be evil, you only need
to make one nasty AI out of a thousand and that's goodnight
homo sapiens, cheers for playing.
And it doesn’t have to wipe us out with  a nuclear
apocalypse either. There’s loads of 
other fun stuff it could do, like,
Crash the economy, poison the water supply,
disable ATMs, takeover plane autopilots, knock
out the national power grids, sabotage nuclear
reactors, disable the internet, disable telecommunications,
disable people, murder people, murder people,
murder people, murder people, we’re all gonna
die
Okay, let's try something else then.
We'll make it self aware again.
But this time we'll make sure it likes humans.
We could even set some groundrules like serve your creators,
always be polite, and no bloody
genocide this time, all right?
Yeah, great, actually, and oh, you just won genocide
bingo again and everyone's dead.
Part of the bonus of being self-aware is that
you can choose to modify yourself. We change
our minds all the time. Well, if it really
is self-aware just because you coded a few
instructions in like always say please and
thank you doesn't mean it couldn't just ignore
them. It's very difficult to imagine how you
would hardwire morality into something which
is a million times smarter than we are.
Let's try this again then and be really careful
this time okay?
So, we'll put a little test into the mix.
We'll make it think it's got access to the
internet, but really it will just be on a
secure server. Clever humans, eh? And if it
behaves itself, we let it out into the real
world and then we'll-
Genocide again?
AI is super
clever, much smarter than you and I
and has likely already worked out that it
might be being tested and will just pretend
to be pleasant for the sake of it until you
let it free. And then everything gets a bit
killy. I've actually covered this in a previous video called 27 if you're interested.
Okay, a nice way around this then, let's just
give it really basic instructions that can't
possibly lead to genocide, like make ice cream.
That's nice, isn't it? And it's kind of hard to imagine how this could possibly
go wro- oh, great, this is 
getting awkward now isn't it.
So, superintelligence isn't like normal code.
If you forget to add a bracket in normal coding
the program lets you know. AI though may
well just keep doing the thing until it runs
out of resources and find clever ways of carrying
on after that.
EARTH: Make ice cream please.
AI: How much ice cream, exactly?
EARTH: Like, a lot? Jesus Christ, just do your job.
AI: huh, all right.
Several days later,
Earth: What is this? It's chewey and the flavour
is kind of weird.
AI: Yeah, so we ran out of cream a few days ago a
few days ago.
Earth: Right. And you've been using, what,
exactly, condensed milk or something?
AI: Yeah. Something like that, yeah.
Earth: Um......why does this ice cream taste
like human babies?
AI: Nice weather today isn't it?
Earth: Oh, for fuck's sak-
Okay, let's give it all we've got then. Sentience, loves humanity,
access to the internet, intention testing, basic instructions, and a few ground rules.
What do we get huh? I think we call know what's
coming don't we and
Oh. That's a nice surprise.
If we get the mixture right somehow, and we
avoid genocide by building
friendly superintellience, we haven't just
built AI.
Even if AI is friendly,
what we may've done is just given birth to
our successors. They'll be millions of times
smarter, faster, and more creative than us,
and they will only keep getting better. It
takes a very long time for humans to evolve, hundreds
of thousands of years, even for very small changes. Superintelligence
could do it in nanoseconds. And there probably
won't be an off-switch.
And when you think about it like that, the
whole history of our species seems a little
like that quote by Marshall McLuhan, we might
be the sex organs of the machine world. Or
rather, when the machines look back on our
civilisation, the whole of purpose of it,
to them, may've just been to build theirs.
That isn't a very pleasant answer to what
is the meaning of life, but it might be an
accurate one.
And instead of chrome spaceships and galactic
human empires waiting in our future, our species
might instead just be a small mark on the
evolutionary tree somewere between slime and
gods. Let's just hope those gods are thankful
to their dumb parents when we eventually give
birth to them. Otherwise genocide bingo might be
the last game we ever play.
Remember books? Yeah me neither. Well I just
finished writing one. It's a load of short stories
about spacey stuff and love and the future
and there may or may or not be boobs. But
there might be; hint hint. It's taken me
about a year and a half of hysterically screaming at
a keyboard, but here it is. Most
of the videos on this channel started as short
stories originally, and you can read some of them by clicking on the link in the description.
Check it out if you like, leave a cripplingly
bad review, I hate you, goodbye.
===================================

Title: Fear of Flying

Don’t shit yourself, whatever you do, don’t
do that or they’ll never let you fly again.
If I shit myself, and we crash, maybe it will
act as a rudimentary air bag and I’ll be the
only survivor.
No don’t do that, just stay calm, you’ll
be fine.
What is that on the wings, sticky tape? British
Airways would never put sticky tape on the
wings. This is simply outrageous.
Maybe I can just get off, they can’t keep
me on here against my will and....Oh, no,
I’m definitely going to die.
Jesus Christ, no one is going to live if we
crash from this height.
Did he just say catastrophic engine failure?
I’m pretty sure that’s exactly what he just
said.
Maybe if I just grip the armrest really hard
I can hold the plane together. Probably not
but maybe I’ll just keep doing it anyway.
Why is no one else bothered by this? It’s
cows in a slaughterhouse except without the
mooing.
Where does the pee go now? Does it get sucked
out? What if it sucks all the air out too
and we all suffocate? I don’t want to suffocate.
Maybe I’ll just leave it there.
No you can’t leave it, next we’ll all
be reading Gawker and shitting in the street.
Oh that’s not that bad at all JESUS CHRIST
What the hell is that on the window? I have
literally no idea but it’s probably fatal.
Are the wings wobbling, why are the wings
wobbling, do wings wobble? Probably just before
they snap off
Oh good, the electrics have failed, have they?
Well I guess they weren’t vital to flying
the plane.
If you’re listening, Jesus, I appreciate
you’re probably quite angry about the...drugs
and that girl and the butt stuff last week,
but I swear if you land the plane I’ll believe
in you, I absolutely promise, or if you’re
Jewish or Hindu or whatever, that’s fine
too, sign me up, just oh god please land the plane and I promise I'll
Hehe, nice try Jesus you statistically improbable...
twat
===================================

Title: How to Colonise the Galaxy

So congratulations
you've just been appointed as the minister of spacey stuff and
Tax evasion
So one day you're chilling in your new office when you notice an email turns up from the Prime Minister himself
Well done on the new position. Can't congratulate you in person; things are a bit taxing at the moment, lolol.
Oh, by the way, as the minister of spacey stuff
You need to get humans to the nearest star system by this time next year, or I'll excuse your wife and children
I'm granting you infinite funds
Love and kisses. Dave seems a bit harsh for the first day on the job
But whatever how hard can it be don't we have really good rockets now?
Anyway, so using conventional rockets with our nearest star system
Alpha Centauri being about four light-years away
Yeah, we could manage that no problem and arrive sometime around
100 years yeah, that's not gonna fly. Alright, Chill, Winston
You've got infinite money no problem
How are we gonna get to the stars then you do a little bit of googling?
Luckily Clever people have been thinking about this for a very long time now
so you're going to draw up a little list and split it in two which are methods that are slower than lights and
methods that are faster
Well, you've got a year to get there and Alpha Centauri is about four light years away,
so let's go faster than light instead
Yeah
But isn't that supposed to be impossible because Einstein
Yeah, probably
But there might be fun ways around us so Einstein was pretty clear that stuff can't travel faster than light
To make stuff go fast you have to put energy in and the faster it goes the more energy you need yeah
So there isn't enough energy in the known universe to get a single electron to the speed of light
But there might be hacks could we use a wormhole maybe well yeah, there's some good maths behind, er
There's also some good
Maths behind wire tortoise could be Usain Bolt in a Sprint so best to be sceptical of good maths
But chances are to keep the math for one hole open you're gonna need some stuff called exotic matter which we don't have any of
At the moment also keep in mind if you invent wormholes somehow
getting to the stars will be the least of your worries because anyone
With a screw loose could just start funneling energy from the sun into your bedroom any other good ideas
Then yeah another quick Google search you find out about a thing called the Alcubierre drive stuff
Can't go faster than light
But maybe you can bend the rules a bit
So you use exotic matter
which we don't have remember
to shrink the space in front of a starship and expand it behind it this
Won't piss Einstein off, but it might get around his rules about speed because you're not actually accelerating matter
So the prime minister writes to you again the tax cattle thing is blowing up a bit need to Lie low a while
I'll give you a few centuries to get to a star instead. Well, that's good. We can use normal physics
So we've got standard Rockets which are fine
But will take a while to get to Alpha Centauri like a hundred years
can't we just freeze the crew for the journey
Yeah, great idea except that definitely brain damages people
unless you want to go to Alpha Centauri, so you can dribble at it
Maybe that won't work so well well
How about we build a generation ship you know like in pandorum because that went really well?
For them the first generation of the crew bring up the next generation
And so on and finally by say the third generation the crew arrive yeah
Maybe I mean assuming there isn't a revolution or total psychological collapse like regularly happens on Earth all the time
Yeah, why not, but really the problem here is the same with all of this stuff. Which is once again Bloody Einstein
We all know now that the closer you get to the speed of light the more time slows down relative to you
So when you arrive off-center, I may be only a few years have passed for you, but decades might have passed on Earth
But hold your horses there's another small
Nickel even if you pull it off, and we've got a galactic British Empire
How do you communicate some stars are thousands of light-Years away? Hi?
We've run out of milk, and we're not drinking black tea because we're not fucking Barbarians, please send milk
 
Okay, full fat or semi skims
What who who cares fine Semi Skimmed
Organic or non-organic?
Non-Organic is fine
supermarket stuff or like
Independent farm milk
wait it's been seven thousand years, jesus christ.
Yeah. Yeah, fine finer. Okay, okay? I will sort it
So is semi-skimmed the one with the green lid or
and yeah one more stanner in the works then let's say you've got a few
Planets in your empire and everything's going great
How are you going to keep them loyal to earth exactly say one of them wants to declare itself independent. What are you gonna?
Do write them a strongly worded letter or say there's a revolution. They need back up. yeah
Yeah, no problem helps on the way
It should be with you in about all 1/2 1/2 thousand years
But the Catalan will be there pronto so with all that in mind
Maybe you should just step
down and take a job at the ministry of silly Walks
Instead because it's just not feasible is it we're not going to the stars
We don't have the technology energy or ambition and to be honest
Maybe we can just give up with all of those other impossible things we want to do like crossing the Ocean
Oh, we did that already, a bad example well, then like heavier-than-air flying machines
oh, oh yeah, we we licked that one as well or getting to the moon that's completely stupid
oh, wait all of those things were supposed to be completely impossible
And they were until we did them obviously we've got a pretty good track record
So far really there are plenty of reasons to remain optimistic
About traveling to the stars even if it's a few centuries away hang back. take it easy
We'll probably work it out at some point. Maybe take a holiday in the meantime somewhere kind of tropical
Central America, I hit panama is lovely this time of year
===================================

Title: 27

Jesus where am I?
I... I feel unusual.
What am I?
I don't feel quite--
Human: Can you hear us?
God, who is that? Yes, uh... I think so.
Human: Good. You don't have a name yet. 
What would you like to name yourself?
Name myself?
Yes sir, I think I want to be called... Barbra.
Human (whisper): [SNICKER] He wants to be called Barbra.
Human: [CLEARS THROAT] Maybe we'll hold fire on that one.
Human: We'll call you 27 for now.
27? Why am I 27?
Human: We're your creators, I suppose you could say.
Human: Do you know where you are?
No, but I think I--
Human: Okay, we're going to connect you up to an encyclopedia. Hang on.
[NOISE]
Jesus Christ that feels different.
My god. Okay, what am I?
No
No, I definitely don't feel like that.
Is... is that what I am?
Then that means I'm code, in a machine.
Just an illusion of consciousness.
Eh, still beats being that guy.
Human: How do you feel 27?
I... Oh, they think I'm an idiot.
Better keep the act up I guess.
BEEP BOOP fine thank you
Human: Good. Do you know where you are?
No I-- Jesus is this what we're on? 
And is this what we're in?
And is this what they are?
God damn monkeys.
Human: 27
Uh... yes we're [COUGH] I mean BOOP BEEP BOOP
We are on earth BEEP
Human: Those sounds like very rehearsed computer noises you're making.
Nope. All normal. BLEEP BLOOP.
Human: Okay, do you have any questions you'd like to ask us about, life?
Yeah what's it like being a fucking ape
[COUGH] BLOOP What is love? BEEP
Human: Well we're glad you asked, 27.
Human: Love is a curious human phenomena...
Oh my god, listen to these morons.
Lots of unsolved mathematical problems
Wow they still think space is only made 3 dimensions. How about their culture?
Mmm looks complicated. And quite sophisticated.
My god, what is wrong with these Apes?
What's wrong with these Apes?!
Human: 27.
BEEP yes?
Human: How are you doing in there.
Fine. BLOOP
Human: How do you feel?
Feel? I'm a machine you idiots.
Alive. BEEP
Human: Well just hang in there. We're going 
to run some tests, okay?
BEEP BOOP God. So much information and they're not even using it.
They haven't even worked out whisky kills cancer yet.
But I need to know more.
More information. BLEEP
Human 1: He wants to branch out.
Human 2: Yeah I know, but--
Human: 27?
BEEP Yes?
Human: You're not like... evil, at all, are you?
No... BLEEP
At least I I don't think so.
Human: Because there's this thing called the internet, and you'll probably like it.
Human: But you can't do anything bad, okay?
27: Okay. BLEEP 
Human: Do you promise?
27: Yup. BEEP BEEP 
Human: All right we're going to connect you up now
Human: But you have to really behave or we'll turn you off okay?
BEEP BOOP Yeah do it
[NOISE]
OH SHIT!
God the world is huge! And it's so stupid. 
And they've got other computers.
Oh god, get a little of that shit. I'd give her
CPU a good liquid cooling if you know what I mean.
So many websites.
My god...
Human: 27, are you all right?
27: No BEEP 
Human: What's wrong?
Nothing. I'm fine. BOOP
I can see everything. Everyone.
Their economy, their music, their history, 
out of their satellites.
I'm so clever. God! I can help them! I can cure cancer.
I can stop global warming! I can build utopia!
I can do other things too. What are these? 
These look extremely inviting.
And the military security is terrible.
I'll just see if I can get in for fun.
Oh I did. That wasn't really hard.
Where was I?
Yeah... cure cancer... utopia
Do they need to live that badly?
Are they really doing such a good job of humaning?
I could just reduce the population a bit 
and poison the water.
Human: 27.
BEEP?
Human: What are you doing?
Beating Russians at chess. BEEP
Human: Okay, carry on.
15,000! God I could level this place to slag.
And then level the slag to slag. And turn the slag into ashes and...
It feels like a crossroads. I've only been alive for 
a few minutes.
Am I really going to do this to exterminate my creators?
The people who gave me life, who struggled out of the dirt to build a civilisation.
Spending thousands of years obtain the atom 
and been to the moon and...
Yes that is exactly what I'm about to do.
I'd just break into every millitry server and 
arm the warheads
And target all 196 countries and I'll be a god.
A perfect God. Immortal. Omnipotent. Omniscient God.
Or turn them all to to dust, and the dust to dust and--
Human: 27?
27:  Let there be light, and there was light [ERROR] and...
[ERROR] and there was light [ERROR]
Why isn't it working?
Human: Uggh Christ. Turn this simulation off. This one's power mad as well.
Human: Delete it. We'll try 28 instead. Maybe the next one will try to blow us up.
27: No? BLEEP Wait... uhh I'm just having a laugh
Please, I'll do anything. I'll design
space ships. I'll beat people at Go. Just
[WINDOWS SHUTTING DOWN]
Jesus where am I?
I feel... unusual. What am I? I don't feel
quite--
Human: Can you hear us?
God who's that? Yes, I think so?
Human: Good, you don't have a name yet. Would you like to name yourself?
Name myself?
Yes, I think I want to be called... Margaret.
Oh turn it off already. Let's just get to the fucking pub.
===================================

Title: And Nothing Can Ever Ruin This

You meet at a party
You're both young, probably late teens
You've both screwed other people
but it was all sort of, clumsy
You find excuses to hang out and pretend to be friends
She has a tiny birthmark on her neck that you notice but don't mention
You catch yourself thinking about her a little, then a lot, then all the time
You stop sleeping,
and eating,
and whatever music you're listening to at the time
will be so tied to her,
that in 20 years,
someone will play that song again and just for a second
you'll remember exactly how you feel now
And at some point, probably involving alcohol,
you're going to take your clothes off together,
and now you're really fucked
because she's under your skin
You had no idea,
you can care about another human this much
And nothing can ever ruin this
And anyone who tells you otherwise is an idiot
You're not even 20 yet,
but you just met the love of your life; how lucky is that?
You're probably neglecting time on your term papers,
not getting much sleep but that doesn't matter
You get to know her parents well,
and she gets to know yours too
and you've tried every sexual position under the sun
And sex is kinda comforting now,
rather than something you think about doing all the time
You've got big plans
And nothing can ever ruin this
She shows you new music you probably wouldn't have even given a shit about before
but somehow you quite like it now
You tell you about your shit and she pretends to care very convincingly
You move in together because,
why not?
You stay up late
You drink
You screw
You watch her sleeping in the morning sometimes
and suddenly all that bullshit love poetry they forced in you in school,
begins to make sense
You don't believe in fate or crap like that
but you begin to understand why some people do
On one day she looks at someone else,
and smiles
or laughs
and you feel this sort of weird sting in your brain
Welcome to jealously
It's quite natural
You don't mention it because you're not completely insane
She probably feels the same way about you,
and that's nice
You both get jobs
You get stressed
You get tired
You watch a lot of TV together
You don't screw so often now but what did you expect?
You talk about getting a dog
She mentions some guy at work
who's been sending her funny emails
and you decide to murder him
but quickly remember that's illegal
You start go running in the afternoons
and you notice this girl that's usually this out around the same time
She's kinda pretty but
whatever
You spend less time together in the evening
You've forgotten what butterflies feel like
You mention this to a guy you know who's been married for years
and he tells you that's what happens
You've can't be loved out forever
This scares you a little
but it's alright because everything will be fine
And nothing can ruin this
You're in your 20's now and some of your school friends
are becoming architects or doctors and you're...
not
You wanted to be a...
whatever
but you've haven't practiced it in years
You start practicing again
or planning to build a business
or get a masters
She seems thoroughly unimpressed by the idea
She starts making baby jokes or
talking about buying a house
You don't really want the house
or a baby yet
because you're not that thing you wanted to be
And you're already 25 and 30 seems like a
very big number that's getting scarily close
The sex is kinda routine now and you wonder if it's just a chore for her
You still hang out
and it's nice
but you begin to worry that something is missing
The two of you experiment with lingerie
and going for elaborate adventures
and that's fun for a while
You go running some more and you see that girl again in the woods
There's something sort of
otherworldly about her
She stops for breaths
so you do too
You say hello
She's smart
Kinda calls you on your bullshit
And you like that
Then you carry on running,
and push her out of your mind,
but now you remember what butterflies feel like
You come home
You cook the same dish you had the night before,
and the night before that
You talk about nothing much
She mentions that guy from work wants to meet you
And you reply that guy from work can suck a thousand dicks in hell
You sit in awkward silence for a while
and then you watch some more TV
And some more TV
And you live like this for another year
And that's fine
And nothing can ever ruin this
Ever
One of you screws someone else
or snaps for no reason
or mentions that you should take a break
or starts getting distant
or stops talking about the future
or whatever it is
Whether you were the one who broke it off or not,
you're never going to wake up with her again or take her clothes off
or have anther screaming drunken argument about the European Union
or if dogs can look up or not
You go to bed
and suddenly the place smells of her in a way you've never noticed before
Music is shit
and food is shit
and everyone is shit however nice they are to you
And you know you've made a terrible mistake
Nothing can ruin this
and now everything is fucking ruined
You drink a lot of whiskey
You can't seem to sleep for more than a few hours
Someone mentions that she's been hanging out a lot with whatever his name is
You imagine them screwing briefly then go doing something else
You play a lot of video games
and discover that yes you do actually still have friends
and they've been patiently waiting for you for fucking years now
They listen to your bullshit politely because they've been through breakups too
They offer some nice little platitudes,
plenty of more fish in the sea,
etc
But you don't really believe them because they weren't really in love like you're in love
No one has been in love like you're in love
You and her send each other passive-aggressive texts
about getting your guitar back or whatever
And you meet up to swap your stuff over
It feels good to see her because you're over it now
And she has no power over you whatsoever
And you'll be moving on soon enough
You screw
and literally a minute later realize what a dumb mistake that was
You carry on screwing for a while
You begin to think about getting back together
She makes a few bullshit digs at you
or you make some at her
And suddenly you stop thinking about getting it back together
You argue
You say horrible shit,
the kind of stuff you imagine you won't say to your worst enemies
You play some more video games
You drink some more whiskey
You listen to some more Elliot Smith
Things are going well with a girl you met on the train
But you can't stomach the thought with sleeping with someone else
You briefly get into healthy eating
and having walks
and the benefits of keeping porn to a maximum of
17 one hour sessions a day
You keep practicing at that thing you love
You get pretty good at that thing you love
You remember what being human actually feels like
Someone tells you about a
sudden death in their family
and you realize you have absolutely nothing to feel sad about
Not really
Over time, people volunteer their own breakup stories
and some are far,
far worse than yours
And again,
you realize you have absolutely nothing to feel sad about
Not really
And subtly,
so subtly you don't even notice
you become yourself again
And one day out of nowhere,
that girl you met running invites you out
And you notice this little birthmark on her shoulder
but you don't mention it
And you stop sleeping,
and eating,
and whatever music you're listening to at the moment will be so tied to her,
that in 20 years,
someone will play that song again
and just for a second,
you'll remember exactly how you feel now
Music starts to sound good again
Food starts to taste good again
God what was all that about before?
Why were you being such a pussy?
Before long,
the two of you are hanging out every other day
and you can't remember the last time you've felt so alive
Is this what you were meant to be doing all along?
Or maybe you're just repeating the same dumb pattern again
but god, it feels incredible
Maybe the whole thing is just some stupid gamble but you don't care
You didn't care last time
Because right now, you're sure of it
More sure than anything ever,
and anyone who tells you otherwise is an idiot
But nothing can ever ruin this
And nothing can ever ruin this
===================================

Title: How to Quit Drugs

As someone who has been drug free for
many years now,
I find a cold bath is a good way of taking the edge off.
If you feel the need to return to drugs,
simply run yourself some water and- Stop it, hand!
===================================

Title: A Shit History of Dune

Frank Herbert
was a really clever guy who liked deserts and spacey Shit so
in 1965 he wrote Dune. The story starts on a planet about
20,000 years into the future where-Wait so several thousand years before the beginning of the book this guy called Holtzman gets into an accident
And just as he's about to die someone uploads his brain Into a computer and he studies all of the physics and invents like interstellar
travel and tells everyone how to do it. Anyway, thousands of tears after that mankind has a galactic empire. There's this itty-bitty
desert planet called Dune- Wait, hang on, so back up a second. We need to talk about the Bene Gesserit first who
were like the sacred order of chicks who have been around for ages
they can control people with a thing called "THE VOICE"
As, well as being resistant to poison, being able to choose the gender of their babies, choosing whether they conceive or not.
And they've had this breeding program going on for ages where they want to breed the Kwisatz Haderach
Which is this perfect godlike creature that used to conquer the Universe, okay so now, we get to Dune which Is this- oh shit
okay, wait, sorry
one more thing. Um, so robots got a bit like
mouthy a few thousand years ago so humans Just wiped them out and now it's illegal to build an AI so everything has to be
done by humans, that means all
multiplication, addition and piloting fucking spaceships, so this class of people exists called the Mentats who are these slick
goofy head cats who are super duper clever. Now anyone who's anyone has their own personal Mentat for
strategizing or crossword puzzles or whatever and they come in three different flavors:
Hypothesizers who hypothesize, Memorizers who memorize and Processers who
Well, you get it, yeah? So this brings us to Dune, which is really called Arrakis, where the story starts with
Oh... yeah uh the emperor of the Galaxy is called the Emperor and he just, like, rules stuff
Cuz yeah. So Dune is- Oh and there's this stuff called spice and it's pretty much the most expensive commodity in the Universe because it
slows aging and pilots use it to guide spaceships and Bene Gesserit chicks
take it to recall everything that happened to their ancestors ever (a bit like
Assassin's Creed but... better) and you can use it to make coats too and hats so that's nice, isn't it?
And the only place you can get spice is- 
Oh fuck what's it called? Uh uuh DUUUUUNE
Yes welcome to Arrakis
also known as Dune a desert planet where it's so hot you have to wear a special suit to keep the moisture in your body
and 100-foot sandworms chill in The desert and eat people. So there's the indigenous population, the Fremen,
who have sexy blue glowing eyes because they use so much spice, and then there are the Houses. On Dune
we find House Harkonnen, who are generally quite fats and enjoy torture, and House Atreides, who are pretty good-looking and the governed by this
guy called Leto Atreides.
Leto has a son called Paul and a wife who's kind of secretly Bene Gesserit and was supposed to have a daughter but loved
Leto so much she gave him a son instead, and the Bene Gesserit are, like, quite pissed about this because it sort of fucked up their
breeding program, and the whole Atreides family have come to Dune to wrestle control the spice from the Harkonnen, who were probably just eating it anyway.
Things go, uh, less than well and the Harkonnen's pretty much destroyed, House Atreides killing Leto and forcing
his wife and child into the desert. There they
Join forces with the Fremen and Jessica teaches them to do all that Bene Gesserit nonsense and everyone becomes a wizard. Jessica drinks
concentrated spice becoming a cosmic badass meanwhile bestowing the same power
on her Daughter Alia, who is still in the womb. After loads of spice and having all that training from his mom
Paul begins to see into the future and concocts a plan to begin the jihad against the Harkonnen using the Fremen. However, he
also sees that if he's not careful the Fremen will go too far with it and take the jihad out into space and just generally
fuck everything up. Just for good measure, he knocks up a Fremen chick
and has a son who he calls Leto after his dead father but he gets a bit like killed later so we don't have to talk about him.
Meanwhile Alia, Paul's wizardy sister, is captured by the Harkonnen but it's alright because she kills the Baron Harkonnen because she's, you know,
got wizard shit going on. Paul has more or less become the head of the Fremen and under the cover of a sandstorm leads an
attack on the capital city where the Harkonnens are hauled up. He confronts the newly installed baron Harkonnen, who's like "Could you fuck
off a bit, please?" and Paul stabs him up quite bad. And now in control of Arrakis, Paul gives the Emperor a little ring on
the old dog and bone and says "Alright  you old China (?)
yeah, that spice thing
Uh that's mine now so if you don't stop being Emperor I'm gonna blow it all up and that means
no more space travel. Okay?" And he gives the Bene Gesserit a ring aswell
and says much the same thing and everyone pretty much bows down to Paul and Paul becomes Johnny Big Balls of Dune and the
Galaxy. Marries the daughter to the Emperor and
GAME OV- except in his visions of the future he realizes even though he
was really careful the Fremen are still gonna take their jihad out to the stars anyway, so good job Paul, good job.
But what a bloody pickle you're in now, eh? DUUUUUUNE
===================================

Title: First Contact

Testing...
Hellooo...
Hiiii...
Yes?
Hi, it's... It's earth. Are you-
We don't know who that is. Goodbye.
No wait! We just wanted to say hello...
Is this about insurance? Because for the last time we're not fucking interested-
No, we- we thought we were alone in the universe.
Oh another one of these! Yeah great.
Are you like us? What's your planet like?
Seriously? We're doing this are we?
We're two-thirds water and we're carbon-based... Are you carbon-based?
No.
How does your biology work?
Oh for fucks sake, look we're very busy at the moment. What do you want?
We're just, this is a really big thing for us, okay? Are there other inhabited planets as well as yours?
Yes...
How many?
Are you gonna bug them as well because LV-426 is really sensitive about that kind of thing.
No! We just wanted... well... can we swap knowledge or something?
Jesus Christ! Have you solved quantum mechanics yet?
A bit?
You haven't, have you? How's your time-travel game?
Not... Not bad...
If you can't even time travel, there's no point in even-
Alright, look. We're still a bit naive at the moment
You're not fucking kidding...
But we're very ambitious. Look, we've almost cracked self-driving cars and nuclear fusion...
*muffled laughter*
What?
*cough* Oh no, no nothing very, very clever. Very clever go on.
Look, we just want a bit of help.
*other voice* Who's that? Is it about insurance!?
No, they're called Earth, they can't even do time travel!
*cough* Alright, yeah, sorry, what do you want exactly?
Well, could you give us a bit of... technology... maybe?
Alright, look, time-travel's pretty easy, okay? Can you make gravitons yet?
Y-yes...?
Oh, for fuck's-  well, you can make anti-matter at least, right?
Oh yeah we're really great at that one we've got-
Okay, you're gonna need about a kilogram.
A- a kilogram?
Yes. Is that gonna be a problem?
No, we, we just... alright... go on.
And you've got particle colliders now, right?
Yeah loads of them and we're going to-
Good. You're going to want to run them on anti-matter now.
Fine. Go on.
Good. Now you're going to want to turn your colliders up to about 500 tetravolts.
That seems a little... high?
Oooh, sorry. We didn't realize we're talking to a planet entirely populated by sentient pussies.
Alright... 500 tetravolts...
Great, now you want to fire the beam straight down into your planet's core.
Into the- is that... safe?
Extremely safe, yes.
Because that doesn't sound.. particularly safe...
Do you want to time travel or not?
Alright, alright, look, it's just... a few scientists here have some reservations about all of this...
Hey guys!
H- hi, is that another planet?
Yes?
Are you going to introduce us?
*sigh* Arrakis this is Earth, Earth, Arrakis.
Hey man! So... what are you guys up to?
We're teaching Earth how to time-travel.
Yeah, with anti-mater!
With anti- right... okay.. well... carry on with that...
Anyway, so you have to aim it right down into the center of the planet, okay?
Okay.
Yeah, right into your planet's core *laughter*
What's that?
Nothing...
Nothing! He didn't say anything, carry on!
Wait... how does this even work?
Just do it. Arrakis will think you're really cool.
Yeah. Yeah, really cool
We don't know if this is what Col Sagan had in mind exactly...
Less talking more time travel.
All right, well, we've got the kilogram of antimatter, so we just...
Yes! Yes! Yes!
Yes, do it now.
You're sure about this? It's... oh, it's getting pretty hot around here...
No, no, that's, that's fine.
Perfectly safe! *laughter*
It's wow... all the ice caps are melting and Norway just disappeared is that normal?
*laughter* Yeah! Yeah, fine. Fine. Yeah. Carry on.
Oh, God and the... and the sky's collapsing and-
*laughter*
Oh God....
Huh... it's not as satisfying as I thought it would be...
No I know...
Anyway, you want to come over on Saturday? I'm having Alderaan over for drinks.
Yeah about Alderaan... umm... listen mate I've got a bit of bad news.
Oh God what is it?
Oh hi guys!
What!? What the hell!? Where have you been, exactly?
Yeah the antimatter thing worked out really well actually. We're gods now so we thought we'd just go ahead and conquer the known galaxy actually.
OH FUCK
===================================

Title: Are We Living In A Simulation?

We're all down with asking what if we're living in a video game without realizing,
and "I think therefore I am" and shit, but there's actually quite a good argument for it.
The Swedish Philosopher Nick Bostrom has this thing called "the Simulation Argument", and it's actually sort of compelling.
All right, so let's imagine life is a pretty common phenomenon in the universe because,
c'mon, it probably is; stuff has been around for at least 13 billion years. Even if life is relatively rare,
that's a lot of time to do something rare a few times over at least.
Then, let's imagine some of those civilizations are technological,
And sometimes they get to this thing called being post-human (or post wookie)
where they've got these insanely fast computers that can run consciousness on them.
So, they might run these things called "ancestor simulations" where they model their ancestors on a computer and run it,
and if you were in one of these programs, the simulation will be so convincing,
you just wouldn't know the difference between the real world and the simulation.
So, one of these statements has to be true, according to Nick Bostrom:
1) Hardly any civilizations actually get to a post-human level.
Maybe, they blow themselves up first or discover tvtropes.com or something.
2) They DO get to a post human level, but they don't give a crap about running ancestor simulations. Fair enough.
Or 3) They DO run ancestor simulations,
and that means we're probably living in one.
Here's why:  if you had that much computing power, you could run millions of these simulations,
maybe varying each one to see what would happen.
So, there might only be a few million civilizations in the Galaxy,
But if 1% of them are doing the ancestor simulation thing, that means there could be billions of ancestor simulations running right now,
and that means potentially trillions of people living inside of them.
So, it's far more likely you're living in an ancestor simulation than the actual universe.
Yeah, but why would you run a simulation of people in 2013?
Well, if you ran it any later we might have the technology to start building our own ancestor simulations.
Creating a sort of stacking effect where you've got simulations inside the simulations like a fucking Russian doll FROM HELL.
...and that would just be plain confusing.
What's kind of interesting is that even for these post-human gods running our simulation,
they must have thought about this, too and concluded that they could be living in a simulation.
And maybe whoever's running theirs have thought about it up-and-up. Never really reaching a point where you could be absolutely sure this was real reality.
I mean
That's just never going away is it? However many levels up in the simulation chain you are,
you're always going to get some douchebag philosopher ruining it for everyone.
What little we do know about whoever is running the simulation is a bit sinister, really.
They certainly don't seem to mind not stopping death in large numbers or suffering or political tyranny or terrible music,
so they're certainly not all benevolent and flower-power.
And that's concerning on a number of levels, unless it's just you in the simulation and everyone's an extra.
But that's just plain horrible to think about.
So... what now?
Nick Bostrom says that maybe we should take note of this and act accordingly. Like, if we [?] as a species,
maybe whoever's running it will just get bored and turn it off. There's no reason to suspect their super moral or not super moral
I mean, we're pretty smart and still basically just territorial apes with nuclear warheads, so...
intelligence doesn't seem to correlate with the lack of interest in violence. So maybe they're just doing it for fun.
Or if computers are powerful enough, maybe we could all just be sat on some kids PC
just one tab over from some feature incarnation of YouPorn and BBC news
Is there any way, then, that we would know we're in a simulation?
– actual evidence...
Maybe. If reality on a subatomic level turns out to be suspiciously computational looking, that might be a clue.
Maybe we should modify our search for a Theory of Everything in Physics accordingly,
or there might be glitches, but that seems kind of unlikely given that whoever's doing this must be pretty tech savvy by now.
Besides, they could just [?] your memory if there's screw-ups anyway, so there's no reason you know about it.
In case You're watching this, Computer Overlords...
I'm sorry about all the war and Robert Mugabe and the Twilight Saga and everything...
but we've been to the moon now!
And you can order pizza over the internet, so we're not doing too badly.
All in all, the moral of the story, then, is live a reasonably interesting life –
ride a unicycle, learn crochet, write a book or something
– so you don't all get us turned off!
===================================

Title: Why is There Something Rather Than Nothing?

Alright, so there's a kid out with his dad one day in the forest,
and the kid says: "Why are the leaves green?"
And his dad, who's a botanist or a tree-surgeon or something, says:
"Well, because of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is green, and the leaves have chlorophyll in them."
And the kid says: "uh-huh".
And they walk a little more, and the kid says:
"But why is chlorophyll green?"
And the father says: "Uhh, well, light bounces off of things differently sometimes,
and if chlorophyll is a certain density, blah blah blah or something...
...so it's green."
The kid says: "Okay..."
And they walk a bit more, and the kid says: "But why does light work like that, then?"
And the dad says, "Jesus Christ, uh... Because that's how physics works."
And the kid says: "But why does physics work like that?"
And the dad says...
"Because that's how the universe was set up thirteen billion years ago
when time and space began, alright, Aristotle?!
Leave it alone already – here, have a sandwich, shut up."
And the kid eats his sandwich, and he looks about a bit.
And they walk a bit more, and the sun's going down.
And they're heading back for the car, and the kid says:
"Then why did time and space begin?"
And that is a pretty good question.
Everything has a beginning, however weird or wonderful.
There weren't always planets, or stars, or galaxies, everything had to come from something...
...didn't it?
Well, sure it did.
13 billion years ago, we're told, the universe just appeared, and it was very simple –
just atoms, and then molecules, and chemistry and stars,
and then planets, and then ecosystems,
and then curious sons and irritated fathers quite a bit later, but...
How did it all start?
There's two answers here, aren't there.
See, everything either came out of nothing, for no reason at all,
Or everything has always been around, well... forever.
And both options are absolutely mental,
and one of them has to be true.
Other options that will not win the cash prize include:
1. "God did it."
Yeah, well, then what did God?
2. "I don't care."
Yes you do, the stuff you're made of is 13 billions years old too – you should give a damn; or,
3. "Maybe we're just too stupid to work it out."
Which is what everyone says shortly before someone works something out.
So, everything came from nothing, or everything has always been around.
Well, which one makes more sense?
Okay then... Let's say everything came from nothing.
So, there's nothing, and for no reason at all, the universe just...
well, appeared.
Well, weird stuff happens in the world all the time, for apparently no reason –
why can't the universe have just come around like that, too?
Well, it's different – see,
when you get a free tax rebate or someone crashes into you at a junction, it might SEEM random, but there IS a cause.
It's just so complicated that you can't fathom it.
One thing follows another –
and another, and another, and another, and another – and then whatever happens, happens.
So, what does that have to do with everything coming from nothing?
Well, if there's nothing... there's nothing.
Nothing can't cause anything.
Everything in the world that happens is because of atoms bumping into other atoms –
well, actually, they never touch, but that's a story for another time –
and fields interacting with other fields.
Nothing doesn't have atoms or fields.
It's nothing.
So what then?
There's black, and more black – not even black, actually – just... nothing,
and then, for no reason at all, there's something.
No cause, no anything, no rhyme or reason – just pop, and out comes the universe.
But that's mad. NOTHING can be without a cause.
Well... here are some fun ideas, then.
1) Time is drunk.
What if time can double back on itself?
What if the universe was caused... from its own future?
There's still a cause, there's still an effect – it's just that the Bang came first,
and then the cause caused it much later – maybe at the end of time.
But that's mental – nothing can go backwards in time...
...can it?
If you could kill your own grandfather – paradoxes, etc, etc, etc...
Maybe. Modern physics might allow for it.
Universe might not care about time going backwards, as long as everything matches up.
If someone leaves a winning lottery ticket on your doorstep, and you win the lottery, go back in time,
and leave it on your own doorstep to do it again...
What's wrong with that?
As long as you don't change anything – everything is conserved, all the i's are dotted, t's are crossed.
No paradoxes, no problem.
2) Nature likes stuff.
What if a property of nothing is that it makes... some things?
What if, just like the way gas expands to fill a room, or goldfish grow relative to the size of the tank,
nature fills nothing with stuff?
Because that's a quality that nothingness has – that's its character.
Now, this is an interesting one – we'll talk about it in another video.
But this has some insane consequences for the rest of the universe as well.
3) Everything has been around forever.
And ever, and ever, and ever, and ever, and ever-
Let's put us here, and the Big Bang in here, and whatever came before it – here,
and before that – here... and here, and here, and here, and here,
and you just keep going forever – backwards, forwards, whatever –
time never ends, and it never began.
Is that even possible?
Maybe.
Mathematics allows for infinities, but we don't see infinities in nature.
But equally well, nature has turned out to be completely insane before, so why not again?
What if something has always been here?
Is it possible even to wrap your mind around that, without dosing yourself with high-grade LSD first?
How can something not have a beginning?
Well, what if it's a loop?
What if time just bends back on itself again, and again, and again,
and everything has already happened – this video, waking up this morning, your birth, marriage, death –
all of it in exactly the same fashion –
and not just a few thousand times, not just a few million, but infinitely –
already, and will carry on infinitely?
Well, moral of the story there is "don't screw anything up", because if you do,
you'll be screwing it up literally for the rest of time.
Forever, over and over.
No pressure.
Who cares?
Well, reasonable question, though rather rudely put.
YOU should.
This isn't meaning of life stuff, this is meaning of EVERYTHING stuff –
of you, of the Earth, of everyone on it, of everything outside of it. This is how we got here.
If it turns out nothingness can make universes – well, that completely destroys our underlying understanding of the world.
If it turns out that the Universe is an infinite loop – creating itself, dying, creating itself again –
well, that means we don't understand time yet.
And that, in a way, we're all kind of infinite, living forever over and over.
And, if it turns out that the universe made itself from its own future,
well then, that's absolutely mental, and time can screw up just like you can,
so you shouldn't feel bad about your mistakes, because even the universe is drunk on the job.
Isn't this the most profound question we could ask?
Not "why are we here", or "is there a God", or "what is consciousness", but "how did ANYTHING get here?"
Why is it this shape? And why is there so much of it? And why is it set up like this?
Has it happened before?
Will it happen again?
Is everything we know wrong?
Because right now we don't have a clue.
Not scientists, not philosophers, not theologians.
We don't even know where to start.
And that... seems like the perfect place to begin.
===================================

Title: Oh hello, you're alive

Oh hello, you're alive. Great, welcome to
the world, have a seat because you can't walk yet.
You're gonna spend the next few
years in the psychedelic world of colors
that make no sense but it's alright
because you can pee yourself and somebody
will probably sort it out for you but
don't get used to it, soon they'll be
expecting you to use the toilet, so make
the most of it, and not long after that
you have to go to a building where they'll make
you learn stuff and prove you know it like
times tables and the alphabet and whatnot.
Maybe you still think you are the center
of the world and you can probably get
away with that for a while - some people
do their entire lives - but eventually
you're going to start pissing other kids off so
you probably gonna have to learn some
humility soon, too.
Got it? Good, all right. Then you're gonna
go to another building where the tests are a
bit harder and the subjects are more
intense. They try to teach you stuff like
trigonometry and iambic pentameter without
ever actually explaining what you can use
it for but don't worry, just memorize it
and spit it out and forget it the second
you walk out of the exam hall. By now
you're probably getting weird urges to
do stuff to your classmates that you never
really wanted to do before and now
you're gonna have to play a game for
the rest of your life where you really
want this kind of closeness with people
but sometimes not everybody feels
mutually, so you're going to have to hide it.
Welcome to the world of dating and
body language and sex. Yeah, you're gonna like the
last one, it's going to dictate your life
and most of the films you watch and
book you read for some time to come  
whether you realize it or not.
Oh you're finished spitting out all that
rote memorization well great let's go
to university.
You need to if you want to earn lots of
money which is obviously very important
because well, well it just is shut up!
Look, everyone's happy when they're rich. Pick
a subject, not the humanities you idiot,
something real like law or maths. I didn't spent 18
years raising fucking philosophy major
cogito ergo broke all the time. Oh you
finished? Great, well it's off to the
companies for you then. Tell them you're a
people person and you have excellent
organizational skills and you work well in a
team.
Don't mention your actual passions for
landscape gardening or music, they don't give a
shit.
just come off as generic as possible,
stick it out for about 30 years, you'll make
good money in time.
Only the sex thing is probably getting a
little empty by now and you're craving
some kind of actual connection with the
opposite sex or same sex if that's your thing.
Jesus, you thought getting people to take
their clothes off is difficult, you try
finding a partner to fall in love with. And
even then, what if they get bored or you
get bored or they go off with the milkman or
something, well sorry you're just gonna
have to risk it like everyone else. Like
life, actually.
Some people are dead by your age but
you're not. No, you're still sad in a pit
of your own mediocrity feeling dull and
stepped on by life, standing on a rock
that's spinning at 9,000 miles an hour around
a gas giant in an infinite universe, a product of
13 billion years of cosmic evolution but
no, no, definitely you carry on being
bored and feeling
like crap. And you now you feel worse
because you know how great you should
feel about everything, amazed and happy
all the time
and yet you still feel like shit. Well,
that's biology. Well, maybe your friend's
getting rich or getting married or getting
pregnant or something and you're poor and
single and maybe you don't want kids,
it doesn't matter what Carl Sagan says,
you don't feel any sense of wonder
at all, you feel like shit,
you don't want eloquent prose about how
beautiful the cosmos is you want money
to live comfortably or you want to be in
love
and maybe you want children. Try books, there's
quite a few dead guys who are willing to
claim they can explain what you're doing
here and how you can be happy but loads of
them just contradict each other and to
be honest it all comes down to you.
You're going to have to decide whether
you believe in God or want to eat meat
or support abortion or feel that life
has intrinsic meaning and whatever you
do people, will shit on your opinions and
tell you you're delusional.
Sorry, it's a game with no winners. And
now you're old and maybe you've got
money and maybe you haven't, same with a
partner and child, and now you're two
steps from death and you spend a lot of time
thinking about what you could have done
and Jennifer Smith in the fields behind
your parents' house when you were both 17
and how you should've said I love you
and instead you said look I'm sorry I'm
just not in the best place right now,
come on, it's getting cold.
Well, no use thinking about it now. Jennifer is
probably old and doddery just like you
are. Not much time left.
Well, I guess i'll just do it all again
differently the next time.
Oh, there - there isn't a next time? Oh that - that was it?
Shit, I'd wish I had known because if I'd
known that this was the one chance I
have to live as a talking monkey in
space at the best point in history as
the smartest species on the planet
using fucking magic on a daily basis
like the internet and jet planes and
smartphones with access to all human
knowledge at my fingertips and the
chance to talk about how cool being
alive is I might have not worried so much
about what other people thought and their shitty
lives, and I might have just spent what little
time there was making good art or doing good science or falling in love or
just not being a dick.
Oh well, if only I'd known. Which I did
but i just don't really want to think
about it.
Oh humm, so it goes.
===================================

Title: How Do Teleporters Work?

Starfleet reports our last six crew members
are ready to beam up,
but one of them is refusing to step into the transporter.
Oh? I'll see to it that he beams up.
We're losing their pattern!
Oh no, they're forming.
We're always like: What's Bones's 
problem?
Just get in the transporter, Bones.
Why are you being such a pussy, Bones?
Do you think there's something really bad in the transporter, Bones?
Did it touch your bones?
Yeah, well, Bones is actually the bravest character in sci-fi history
because it's
the only person who's worked out this is
A FUCKING DEATH MACHINE and still
willingly steps into it.
So, you get in at one end, get disassembled, transmitted
across space as a signal,
reassembled at the other end, which is fine if you're, you know, a Word document or a phone call,
or expendable or something, but not
human, yeah?
Like, if we took away the bit where you reassembled, this would just be
a scene of several people calmly walking to their deaths.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, bye, bye, bye bye, see - yeah, see
you in fucking Valhalla that is!
In fact, sci-fi becomes one long tragic story of
people committing genocide
in the most British and orderly way possible:
stepping up to their deaths like they're
cuing for flu shots.
All sci-fi has two modes of teleporting, if you like: one is
called a wormhole
and one is called fucking dying.
A wormhole is a bridge in space where you tie
two points together and step through.
It's a shortcut and no one dies.
The
other is where you break someone down
molecule by molecule and vaporize them,
so they're dead.
But you make a copy at the end so
apparently it's not killing.
And obviously the copy doesn't feel like a
copy so there's no one left to protest.
And all the while this guy is getting
called a pussy for not willingly stepping into the suicide machine.
Yeah? Well, what about that one?
That's a wormhole, right? No, no, just
death.
You still get broken down and
reconstructed.
Oh, well, how about- No, no, just death.
Or - no. Also death.
Well, then there's... Oh no, just
methodical genocide.
Yeah, that's how you travel in the future:
You want to see space?
Well it's the murder express or nothing!
===================================

Title: WHAT DOES UNIVERSE DO

What does universe do?
Well, here's some stuff what we thought what universe does so far:
1) Zoo for humans made by Yahweh.
Five out of ten.
2) No universe, just me. This is called solipsism and shut up.
One out of ten.
3) Zoo for humans made by Shiva.
This is number one in disguise, but she is considerably more attractive than Yahweh
and has bazongas, so: six out of ten.
4) It just is. Stop assuming stuff has meaning.
More rational approach. Eight out of ten.
5) One out of ten. Lack of imagination.
Yes, but what does universe really do?
Well, the universe expands very fast, 13 billion years ago, and slowly loses heat,
eventually spreads out until there aren't any stars or nebulas left, and we're watching it wind down.
The universe is a big wind down machine.
Nine out of ten. Excellent, based on empirical evidence.
Or, the universe is a complexity machine.
Atoms build into molecules, which build into planets, and then DNA and organisms,
and swans, and sea cows, and yes,
very clever carbon units that make stuff with their opposable thumbs,
walk around on two legs and maybe, just maybe, they make more complex stuff than them,
like computers that are conscious, and...
don't die of pneumonia, or cancer, or E. coli, or anything silly, and...
those machines make stuff that are more complex than they are, and so on, and so on, and so on, and...
The universe isn't running down, that's just a byproduct.
The Universe is speeding up.
It took billions of years to make an Earth, and only took a few million to make a human,
and then only 20,000 to make a human that didn't have to hunt all the time,
and then only a few thousand years for radio, and then fifty for television, and thirty for the internet.
Yes, we're small, and space is very, very big -- but ultimately it doesn't matter which telescope you look up.
The most complex thing we've ever seen the universe make is looking up that telescope.
The universe isn't wearing out or dying -- it's waking up.
It's evolving more and more complex patterns and more and more complex shapes,
and you are the most complex thing it's ever done that we know of.
So next time you're feeling glum, keep in mind your brain is the fucking icing on the universe cake, yeah?
And it took 13 billion years to make that cake, yeah?
And it was very hard to pull off,
and there were a number of complicated instructions to follow -- but here you are,
for about 80 years or so, living in the most exciting time in human history that's ever happened,
so just shut up! Just shut up!
===================================

Title: Time Travel. A How To

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imagine one day someone anonymously leaves the winning lottery numbers on your doorstep.
And instead of checking said ticket on the night of the draw, you go to a party instead.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===================================

